
 
 

7
 


 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
 

13
 


 Item 2.
 
 Properties
 
 

13
 


 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
 

14
 


 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
 
 

15
 


 
 
 Supplemental Item—Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
 

15
 



  PART II
 
 
 
 


 Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
 

16
 


 Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
 

18
 


 Item 7.
 
 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 

20
 


 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
 
 

33
 


 Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
 

34
 


 Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
 

76
 


 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
 

76
 


 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
 
 

79
 



  PART III
 
 
 
 


 Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
 

79
 


 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
 
 

79
 


 Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
 

80
 


 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
 

80
 


 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
 

80
 



  PART IV
 
 
 
 


 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
 
 

81
 


 Item 16.
 
 Form 10-K Summary
 
 

87
 



  SIGNATURES
 
 
88
 





1




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART I     
 
    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS     




General  
        AAR CORP. and its subsidiaries are referred to herein collectively as "AAR," "Company," "we," "us," and "our" unless the context indicates
otherwise. AAR was founded in 1951, organized in 1955 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1966. We are a diversified provider of products and services to the worldwide aviation and government and
defense markets. 
        Beginning
in fiscal 2015, we implemented a comprehensive strategic plan to narrow our strategy to focus on our best-in-class aviation and expeditionary services through our two business
segments: Aviation Services and Expeditionary Services. We sold our Telair Cargo Group for cash of $714 million, resulting in pre-tax gains of $198.6 million in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2015 (and $27.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 from the receipt of contingent consideration). We used the proceeds from the sale in fiscal 2015 to reduce our total debt and
return capital to shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividends. 
        Through
execution of our strategic plan over the last three years, we have succeeded in expanding customer relationships and securing new flight hour component inventory management and
repair programs work with multiple international commercial customers and government customers. We also invested in our rotable assets to support these programs and continued our focus on expanding
our business development resources. These investments in our supply chain activities have allowed us to increase market share, expand our customer base, and enlarge our geographic footprint. 
        In
fiscal 2018, we began the ramp-up for the 15-year, U.S. Air Force Landing Gear Performance-Based Logistics One program. Under the program, we are providing total supply chain
management including purchasing, distribution and inventory control to support all landing gear components for the U.S. Air Force's fleet of C-130, KC-135 and E-3 aircraft. 
        In
fiscal 2018, we also began providing services to the U.S. Department of State ("DoS") under the INL/A Worldwide Aviation Support Services ("WASS") contract. This contract leverages
our capabilities in aviation services, including flight operations, supply chain logistics, and other services. We are the prime contractor on this 10-year performance-based contract to globally
operate and maintain the DoS fleet of fixed and rotary-wing aircraft. We successfully completed the transition and phase-in of
the WASS program in June 2018. We have full operational capability at all contract sites, which include Afghanistan, Iraq, Panama, Peru, and Patrick Air Force Base as well as support locations in
Brevard County, Florida. 
        Our
long-term strategy continues to emphasize the return of capital to shareholders. Over the past three years, we have returned $82.6 million to shareholders through common stock
repurchases of $51.7 million and dividends of $30.9 million. 
        We
remain in a strong financial position to further execute on our strategy in fiscal 2019. Both our commercial and government businesses are executing on our many contract wins and will
continue to deliver growth in fiscal 2019. Our cash on hand plus unused capacities on our Revolving Credit Facility and accounts receivable financing program was $473 million at May 31,
2018. We expect to invest opportunistically in expanding our comprehensive suite of services to the global commercial aviation and government and defense markets. We continue to have the flexibility
in our balance sheet allowing us to invest in our growth. As we generate positive cash flow, we will continue our strategy of returning capital to our shareholders without hampering our future
operating flexibility. 
2



 
Table of Contents




Business Segments  




Aviation Services  
        The Aviation Services segment provides aftermarket support and services for the commercial aviation and government and defense markets and
accounted for 93% of our sales in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016. In this segment, we also provide inventory management and distribution services, maintenance, repair and overhaul ("MRO"), and
engineering services. Business activities in this segment are primarily conducted through AAR Supply Chain, Inc.; AAR Government Services, Inc.; AAR Aircraft & Engine
Sales & Leasing, Inc.; AAR Aircraft Services, Inc.; AAR Allen Services, Inc.; AAR Landing Gear LLC; and AAR International, Inc. 
        We
sell and lease a wide variety of new, overhauled and repaired engine and airframe parts and components and aircraft to our commercial aviation and government/defense customers. 
        We
provide customized flight hour component inventory and repair programs, warranty claim management, and outsourcing programs for engine and airframe parts and components in support of
our airline and government customers' maintenance activities. The types of services provided under these programs include material planning, sourcing, logistics, information and program management,
and parts and component repair and overhaul. We are also an authorized distributor for more than 70 product lines across over 25 leading aviation product manufacturers. 
        We
also provide customized performance-based supply chain logistics programs in support of the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD") and foreign governments. The types of services provided
under these programs include material planning, sourcing, logistics, information and program management, airframe maintenance and maintenance planning, and component repair and overhaul. 
        We
provide major airframe inspection, maintenance, repair and overhaul, painting services, line maintenance, airframe modifications, structural repairs, avionic service and installation,
exterior and interior refurbishment, and engineering services and support for many types of commercial and military aircraft. We also repair and overhaul various components, landing gears, wheels, and
brakes for commercial and military aircraft. 
        We
operate seven airframe maintenance facilities and one landing gear overhaul facility. Our landing gear overhaul facility is in Miami, Florida, where we repair and overhaul landing
gear, wheels, brakes, and actuators for different types of commercial and military aircraft. Our U.S. airframe maintenance facilities are in Indianapolis, Indiana; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Duluth,
Minnesota; Miami, Florida; and Rockford, Illinois and our Canadian airframe maintenance facilities are in Trois Rivieres, Quebec and Windsor, Ontario. In addition, we also announced a joint venture
with Indamer Aviation which will develop and operate an airframe maintenance facility in India. The facility is currently under construction and is expected to begin operations in fiscal 2019. 
        The
majority of our product sales are made pursuant to standard commercial purchase orders. Government sales are generally made under standard types of government contracts which can
include firm fixed-price contracts, cost plus fixed fee contracts, and time-and-materials contracts. Some of our contracts call for the performance of specified services or the delivery of specified
products under indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("ID/IQ") arrangements. Certain inventory supply and management and performance-based logistics program agreements reflect negotiated terms and
conditions. 
        To
support activities within the Aviation Services segment, we acquire aviation parts and components from domestic and foreign airlines, independent aviation service companies, aircraft
leasing companies,
and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM"s). We have ongoing arrangements with OEMs that provide us access to parts, repair manuals, and service bulletins in support of parts manufactured by
them. Although the terms of each arrangement vary, they typically are made on standard OEM terms as to 
3



 
Table of Contents
duration,
price, and delivery. From time to time, we purchase engines for disassembly into individual parts and components. These engines may be leased to airlines on a short-term basis prior to
disassembly. 




Expeditionary Services  
        The Expeditionary Services segment consists of businesses that primarily provide products and services supporting the movement of equipment and
personnel by the U.S. and foreign governments and non-governmental organizations. The Expeditionary Services segment accounted for 7% of our sales in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016. Business activities
in this segment are primarily conducted through AAR Airlift Group, Inc.; AAR Manufacturing, Inc. and Brown International Corporation. 
        We
provide fleet management and operations of customer-owned aircraft for the DoS under the INL/A WASS contract. We are the prime contractor on this ten-year performance-based contract
to globally operate and maintain the DoS fleet of fixed- and rotary-wing aircraft. 
        We
also design, manufacture, and repair transportation pallets and a wide variety of containers and shelters used in support of military and humanitarian tactical deployment activities.
The containers and shelters are used in numerous mission requirements, including armories, supply and parts storage, refrigeration systems, tactical operation centers, briefing rooms, laundry and
kitchen facilities, water treatment, and sleeping quarters. Shelters include both stationary and vehicle-mounted applications. 
        We
also provide engineering, design, and system integration services for specialized command and control systems and design and manufacture advanced composite materials for commercial,
business and military aircraft. 
        Sales
in this segment are generally made to customers pursuant to standard commercial purchase orders and contracts. Government sales are generally made under standard types of
government contracts which can include firm fixed-price contracts, cost plus fixed fee contracts, and time-and-materials contracts. Some of our contracts call for the performance of specified services
or the delivery of specified products under ID/IQ arrangements, however, the majority of our products and services are procured via definite contracts. 




Raw Materials  
        Although we generated 60% of our fiscal 2018 sales from the sale of products, our businesses are generally engaged in limited manufacturing
activities and have minimal exposure to fluctuations in both the availability and pricing of raw materials. We purchase raw materials for our manufacturing operations, including steel, aluminum,
extrusions, balsa, and other necessary supplies from several vendors. Where necessary, we have been able to obtain raw materials and other inventory items from numerous sources for each segment at
competitive prices, terms, and conditions, and we expect to be able to continue to do so. 




Terms of Sale  
        We generally sell our products and services under standard 30-day payment terms. On occasion, certain customers, principally foreign customers,
will negotiate extended payment terms of 60-90 days. Except for customary warranty provisions, customers neither have the right to return products nor do they have the right to extended
financing. Our government contracts may extend several years and include one or more base years and one or more option years. The government generally has the right not to exercise options to extend
or expand our contracts and may otherwise terminate, cancel, or modify some contracts at its convenience. 




Customers  
        The principal customers for our products and services in the Aviation Services segment are domestic and foreign commercial airlines, domestic
and foreign freight airlines, regional and commuter airlines, 
4



 
Table of Contents
business
and general aviation operators, OEMs, aircraft leasing companies, aftermarket aviation support companies, the DoD and its contractors, and foreign military organizations or governments. In
the Expeditionary Services segment, our principal customers include the DoS, DoD and its contractors, foreign military organizations or governments, defense organizations, and OEMs. 
        Sales
of aviation products and services to our commercial airline customers are generally affected by such factors as the number, type and average age of aircraft in service, the levels
of aircraft utilization (e.g., frequency of schedules), the number of airline operators, the general economy, and the level of sales of new and used aircraft. Sales to the DoD and other
government agencies are subject to a number of factors, including the level of troop deployment worldwide, government funding, competitive bidding, and requirements generated by worldwide geopolitical
events. 
        We
primarily market and sell products and services through our own employees. In certain markets outside of the United States, we rely on foreign sales representatives to assist in the
sale of our products and services. 




Sales to Government and Defense Customers  
        Sales to global government and defense customers (including sales to branches, agencies, and departments of the U.S. government) were
$428.8 million (24.5% of consolidated sales), $438.7 million (27.6% of consolidated sales) and $489.4 million (32.1% of consolidated sales) in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016,
respectively. Sales to branches, agencies, and departments of the U.S. government and their contractors were $304.3 million (17.4% of consolidated sales), $321.5 million (20.2% of
consolidated sales), and $366.1 million (24.0% of consolidated sales) in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. 
        Sales
to government and defense customers are reported in each of our reportable segments (See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Since such sales are
subject to competitive bidding and government funding, no assurance can be given that such sales will continue at levels previously experienced. The majority of our U.S. government sales are for
products and services supporting the DoD logistics and mobility strategy. Thus, our government contracts have changed, and may continue to change, with fluctuations in defense and other governmental
agency spending. Our government contracts are also subject to termination by the customer; in the event of such a
termination, we are entitled to recover all allowable costs incurred by us through the date of termination. 




Government Regulation and Certificates  
        The Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") regulates the manufacture, repair, and operation of all aircraft and aircraft parts operated in the
United States. Similar rules and regulatory authorities exist in other countries. The inspection, maintenance and repair procedures for the various types of aircraft and equipment are prescribed by
these regulatory authorities and can be performed only by certified repair facilities utilizing certified technicians. The FAA requires that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft
engines, certain engine parts, and airframes at regular intervals based on take off and landing cycles or flight time. Our businesses which sell defense products and services directly to the U.S.
government or through its contractors can be subject to various laws and regulations governing pricing and other factors. 
        We
have 13 FAA certificated repair stations in the United States, Canada, and Europe. Of the 13 certificated FAA repair stations, seven are also European Aviation Safety Agency
("EASA") and four are also Transport Canada Civil Aviation ("TCCA") certificated repair stations. Such certificates, which are ongoing in duration, are required for us to perform authorized
maintenance, repair and overhaul services for our customers and are subject to revocation by the government for non-compliance with applicable regulations. Of the 13 FAA certificated repair stations,
12 are in the Aviation Services segment and one is held by our Contractor-Owned, Contractor-Operated business ("COCO") which is classified as a discontinued operation as the COCO business is currently
held for sale. The EASA and TCCA certificated 
5



 
Table of Contents
repair
stations are in the Aviation Services segment. We also hold a FAR Part 135 certificate to operate aircraft for our expeditionary airlift services business. We are also Commercial Airlift
Review Board certified with the DoD. We believe that we possess all licenses and certifications that are material to the conduct of our business. 




Competition  
        Competition in each of our markets is based on quality, ability to provide a broad range of products and services, speed of delivery, and price.
Competitors in our Aviation Services segment include OEMs, the service divisions of large commercial airlines, and other independent suppliers of parts, repair, and overhaul services to the commercial
and defense markets. Our Expeditionary Services segment competes with domestic and foreign contracting companies and a number of divisions of large corporations and other large and small companies.
Although certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, we believe that we have maintained a satisfactory competitive position through our
responsiveness to customer needs, our attention to quality, and our unique combination of market expertise and technical and financial capabilities. 




Backlog  
        Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to derive from unshipped orders or signed contracts. At May 31, 2018, backlog was
approximately $1,053 million compared to $519 million at May 31, 2017 which reflects the significant new commercial and government contract awards received over the last twelve
months. Approximately $510 million of our May 31, 2018 backlog is expected to be filled in fiscal 2019. 




Employees  
        At May 31, 2018, we employed approximately 5,000 employees worldwide, of which approximately 155 employees are subject to a
collective bargaining agreement. We also retain approximately 775 contract workers, the majority of whom are located at our airframe maintenance facilities. 




Available Information  
        For additional information concerning our business segments, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" and "Business Segment Information" in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 
        Our
internet address is www.aarcorp.com. We make available free of charge through our web site our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained on our web site is not a part of this report. 
6




 










Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS     
        The following is a description of the principal risks inherent in our business. 




We are affected by factors that adversely impact the commercial aviation industry.  
        As a provider of products and services to the commercial aviation industry, we are greatly affected by overall economic conditions of that
industry. The commercial aviation industry is historically cyclical and has been negatively affected in the past by geopolitical events, high fuel and oil prices, lack of capital, and weak economic
conditions. As a result of these and other events, from time to time certain of our customers have filed for bankruptcy protection or ceased operation. The impact of instability in the global
financial markets may lead airlines to reduce domestic or international capacity. In addition, certain of our airline customers have in the past been impacted by tight credit markets, which limited
their ability to buy parts, services, engines, and aircraft. 
        A
reduction in the operating fleet of aircraft both in the U.S. and abroad will result in reduced demand for parts support and maintenance activities for the type of aircraft affected.
Further, tight credit conditions negatively impact the amount of liquidity available to buy parts, services, engines, and aircraft. A deteriorating airline environment may also result in additional
airline bankruptcies, and in such circumstances we may not be able to fully collect outstanding accounts receivable. Reduced demand from customers caused by weak economic conditions, including tight
credit conditions and customer bankruptcies, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. 
        Our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth rates may be adversely affected by these and other events that impact the aviation industry, including the
following:


• deterioration in the financial condition of our existing and potential customers; 
• reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support;  
• retirement of older generation aircraft, resulting in lower prices for spare parts and services for those aircraft;  
• reductions in demand for used aircraft and engines; 
• increased in-house maintenance by airlines; 
• lack of parts in the marketplace; 
• acts of terrorism; 
• future outbreaks of infectious diseases; and 
• acts of God. 





Our U.S. government contracts may not continue at present sales levels, which may have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  
        Our sales to branches, agencies and departments of the U.S. government and their contractors were $304.3 million (17.4% of consolidated
sales) in fiscal 2018 (See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The majority of our U.S. government sales is for products and services supporting DoD logistics and mobility
strategy and is, therefore, subject to changes in defense and other governmental agency funding and spending. Our contracts with the U.S. government and their contractors are typically agreements to
provide products and services at a fixed price and have a term of one year or less, frequently subject to extension for one or more additional periods of one year at the option of the government
customer. Sales to agencies of the U.S. government and their contractors are subject to a number of 
7



 
Table of Contents
factors,
including the level of troop deployment worldwide, competitive bidding, U.S. government funding, requirements generated by world events, and budgetary constraints. 
        U.S.
government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by
larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation, including the statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt (the "debt ceiling"). These issues could negatively affect the
timely collection of our U.S. government invoices. 
        Future
congressional appropriation and authorization of defense spending and the application of sequestration remain marked by significant debate and an uncertain schedule. The federal
debt limit continues to be actively debated as plans for long-term national fiscal policy are discussed. The outcome of these debates could have a significant impact on defense spending broadly and
programs we support in particular. 
        If
there are funding delays and constraints, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S. government contracts even if the U.S. government is
unable to make timely payments. Future budget cuts, including cuts mandated by sequestration, or future procurement decisions could result in reductions, cancellations, and/or delays of existing
contracts or programs which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




We face risks of cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts.  
        We sell certain of our products and services to our commercial, government, and defense customers under firm contracts providing for fixed unit
prices, regardless of costs incurred by us. The cost of producing products or providing services may be adversely affected by increases in the cost of labor, materials, fuel, overhead, and other
unknown variants, including manufacturing and other operational inefficiencies and differences between assumptions used by us to price a contract and actual results. Increased costs may result in cost
overruns and losses on such contracts, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Success at our airframe maintenance facilities is dependent upon continued outsourcing by the airlines.  
        We currently perform airframe maintenance, repair and overhaul activities at seven leased locations. Revenues at these facilities fluctuate
based on demand for maintenance which, in turn, is driven by the number of aircraft operating and the extent of outsourcing of maintenance activities by airlines. In addition, certain airlines operate
certain new fleet types and/or newer generation aircraft and we may not have contractual arrangements to service these aircraft nor technicians trained and certified to perform the required airframe
maintenance, repair and overhaul activities. If either the number of aircraft operating or the level of outsourcing of maintenance activities declines, we may not be able to execute our operational
and financial plans at our maintenance, repair and overhaul facilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




We operate in highly competitive markets, and competitive pressures may adversely affect us.  
        The markets for our products and services to our commercial, government, and defense customers are highly competitive, and we face competition
from a number of sources, both domestic and international. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, aircraft component and parts manufacturers, airline and aircraft service companies, other
companies providing maintenance, repair and overhaul services, other aircraft spare parts distributors and redistributors, and other expeditionary airlift service providers. Some of our competitors
have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and others may price their products and services below our selling prices. These competitive markets also create pressure on our
ability to hire and retain qualified technicians and other skilled labor needs. We believe that our 
8



 
Table of Contents
ability
to compete depends on superior customer service and support, on-time delivery, sufficient inventory availability, competitive pricing and effective quality assurance programs. 
        Our
government customers, including the DoD, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for certain work, or may utilize small business contractors
or determine to source work internally rather than use us. We are also impacted by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. Bid protests could result in significant expense for
us, contract modifications, or the award decision being overturned and loss of the contract award. Even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of an award, the resolution can extend the time
until the contract activity can begin, and delay earnings. These competitive pressures, with potential impacts on both our
commercial and government business, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




We are subject to significant government regulation and may need to incur significant expenses to comply with
new or more stringent governmental regulation.  
        The aviation industry is highly regulated by the FAA in the United States and equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Before we sell
any of our products that are to be installed in an aircraft, such as engines, engine parts and components, and airframe and accessory parts and components, they must meet certain standards of
airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in certain other countries. We operate repair stations that are licensed by the FAA and the equivalent regulatory agencies in
certain other countries, and hold certificates to operate aircraft. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although regulatory requirements in other countries are generally satisfied by
compliance with FAA requirements. New and more stringent governmental regulations may be adopted in the future that, if enacted, may have an adverse impact on us. 
        If
any of our material licenses, certificates, authorizations, or approvals were revoked or suspended by the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries, our results of
operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 




If we fail to comply with government procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable
for various penalties or sanctions.  
        We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of U.S. government contracts. These laws and
regulations include the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations, the Truth in Negotiations Act, Cost Accounting Standards, and laws, regulations, and orders
restricting the use and dissemination of classified information under the U.S. export control laws and the export of certain products and technical information and safeguarding of contractor
information systems. Certain government contracts provide audit rights by government agencies, including with respect to performance, costs, business systems, internal controls and compliance with
applicable laws and regulations. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur significant costs, and non-compliance may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, including
contractual damages. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or if a government audit, review, or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil
penalties, criminal penalties, or administrative sanctions, including suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. Our reputation could suffer harm if allegations of impropriety
were made or found against us, which could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible loss of revenue. 
9



 
Table of Contents




We are exposed to risks associated with operating internationally.  
        We conduct our business in a number of foreign countries, some of which are politically unstable or subject to military or civil conflicts.
Consequently, we are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following:


• military conflicts, civil strife, and political risks; 
• export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; 
• compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, United Kingdom ("UK") Anti-bribery Act, and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption
laws; 
• the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties, and technical standards and changes in those regulations;  
• contract award and funding delays; 
• potential restrictions on transfers of funds; 
• import and export duties and value added taxes; 
• foreign exchange risk; 
• transportation delays and interruptions; 
• uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations; and 
• changes in U.S. policies on trade relations and trade policy, including implementation of or changes in trade sanctions, tariffs, and
embargoes. 

        In
addition, the UK held a referendum in 2016 in which voters approved an exit from the European Union ("EU"). On March 29, 2017, the UK government commenced the exit process
under Article 50 of the Treaty of the EU by notifying the European Council of the UK's intention to leave the EU. This notification started a two-year time period for the UK and the remaining
EU countries to negotiate a withdrawal agreement. The final terms of the UK's potential exit from the EU have yet to be determined and it is possible there will be greater restrictions on imports and
exports between the UK and EU countries along with increased regulatory complexities. 
        While
we have adopted and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of doing business internationally, such measures may not be
adequate, and the
regions in which we operate might not continue to be stable enough to allow us to operate profitably or at all. 




Acquisitions expose us to risks, including the risk that we may be unable to effectively integrate acquired
businesses.  
        We have completed multiple acquisitions over the past few years and we have discussions with third parties regarding acquisitions on a regular
basis. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel, the effects of amortization of any acquired intangible assets and the potential impairment of
goodwill, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. In addition, acquisitions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from
our existing business. For any businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to execute our operational, financial, or integration plans for the acquired businesses, which could
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 
10



 
Table of Contents




Market values for our aviation products fluctuate and we may be unable to recover our costs incurred on
engines, rotable components and other aircraft parts.  
        We make a number of assumptions when determining the recoverability of rotable components, engines, and other assets which are on lease,
available for lease, or supporting our long-term programs. These assumptions include historical sales trends, current and expected usage trends, replacement values, current and expected lease rates,
residual values, future demand, and future cash flows. Reductions in demand for these assets or declining market values, as well as differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by
us when determining the recoverability of our aircraft, engines, and other assets could result in impairment charges in future periods, which would adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition. 




We may need to reduce the carrying value of our assets.  
        We own and distribute a significant amount of engines, aircraft parts and components, and manufacturing facilities and related equipment. The
removal of aircraft from service or recurring losses in certain operations could require us to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of those assets and record an impairment charge through
earnings to reduce the carrying value. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we recognized impairment charges of $54.2 million related to assets included in our COCO business which is
classified as a discontinued operation. In addition, if aircraft or engines for which we offer replacement parts or supply repair and overhaul services are retired and there are fewer aircraft that
require these parts or services, our revenues may decline. 
        We
make a number of assumptions when determining the recoverability of our assets including historical sales trends, current and expected usage trends, replacement values, current and
expected lease rates, residual values, future demand, and future cash flows. Differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the recoverability of our assets
could result in impairment charges in future periods, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 
        We
have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets related to acquisitions. If we are unable to achieve the projected levels of operating results, it may be necessary to record an
impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and related intangible assets. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $9.8 million
related to our COCO business. Similarly, if we were to lose a key customer or one of our airframe maintenance or landing gear facilities were to lose its authority to operate, we might be required to
record an impairment charge. 




We are dependent upon continued availability of financing to manage our business and to execute our business
strategy, and additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us.  
        Our ability to manage our business and to execute our business strategy is dependent, in part, on the continued availability of debt and equity
capital. Access to the debt and equity capital markets may be limited by various factors, including the condition of overall credit markets, general economic factors, state of the aviation industry,
our financial performance, and credit ratings. Debt and equity capital may not continue to be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms could
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Our existing debt includes restrictive and financial covenants.  
        Certain financing arrangements, including our Revolving Credit Facility and our accounts receivable financing program, require us to comply with
various restrictive covenants and some contain financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Our failure to meet these covenants could result in default
under these loan and debt agreements and may result in a cross-default under other debt agreements. In the event of a default and our inability to obtain a waiver of the default, all amounts
outstanding under our debt agreements could be declared immediately due and payable. Our 
11



 
Table of Contents
failure
to comply with these covenants could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Our industry is susceptible to product and other liability claims, and claims not adequately covered by
insurance may adversely affect our financial condition.  
        Our business exposes us to possible claims for property damage and bodily injury or death which may result if an engine, engine part or
component, airframe part or accessory, or any other aviation product which we have sold, manufactured, or repaired fails, or if an aircraft we operated, serviced, or in which our products are
installed, crashes. We carry substantial liability insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate for our risk exposure and commensurate with industry norms. However, claims may arise in the
future, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us in all circumstances. Additionally, we might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable
cost. Any liability claim not covered by adequate insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions.  
        Our businesses depend heavily on information technology and computerized systems to communicate and operate effectively. The Company's systems
and technologies, or those of
third parties on which we rely, could fail or become unreliable due to equipment failures, software viruses, cyber threats, ransomware attacks, terrorist acts, natural disasters, power failures or
other causes. These threats arise in some cases as a result of our role as a defense contractor. 
        Cyber
security threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our sensitive information, ransomware attacks,
including our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and joint venture partners, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release
of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. 
        The
procedures and controls we utilize to monitor and mitigate these threats may not be sufficient to prevent security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to
materialize, the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results,
and financial condition. 
        Moreover,
expenditures incurred in implementing and maintaining cyber security and other procedures and controls could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




We must comply with extensive environmental requirements, and any exposure to environmental liabilities may
adversely affect us.  
        Federal, state, and local requirements relating to the discharge and emission of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous
wastes, the remediation and abatement of contaminants, and other activities affecting the environment have had and may continue to have an impact on our operations. Management cannot assess the
possible effect of compliance with future environmental requirements or of future environmental claims for which we may not have adequate indemnification or insurance coverage. If we were required to
pay the expenses related to any future environmental claims for which neither indemnification nor insurance coverage were available, these expenses could have an adverse impact on our results of
operations and financial condition. 
        Future
environmental regulatory developments in the United States and abroad concerning environmental issues, such as climate change, could adversely affect our operations and increase
operating costs and, through their impact on our customers, reduce demand for our products and services. Actions may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the United
States, foreign 
12



 
Table of Contents
governments,
the International Civil Aviation Organization, or by signatory countries through a new global climate change treaty to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry.
The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to us and our customers are difficult to predict, but the impact to us and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could
be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits. 




We may need to make significant capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments in our
industry.  
        The industries in which we participate are constantly undergoing development and change, and it is likely that new products, equipment, and
methods of repair and overhaul services will be introduced in the future. We may need to make significant expenditures to purchase new equipment and to train our employees to keep pace with any new
technological developments. These expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Our operations would be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled personnel or work stoppages.  
        We are dependent on an educated and highly skilled workforce because of the complex nature of many of our products and services. Furthermore, we
have a collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 155 employees. Our ability to operate successfully and meet our customers' demands could be jeopardized if we are unable to attract and
retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, including qualified licensed mechanics, to conduct our business, or if we experience a significant or prolonged work stoppage. These and similar events
may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  
 
   