 that affect the Company’s business and financial results are
discussed in the Risk Factors listed in Item 7. As the Company seeks to improve its financial
condition, it must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and significantly reduce
its costs. Although the Company has a number of initiatives underway to address the cost and
revenue challenges, the ultimate success of these initiatives is not known at this time and cannot
be assured. It will be very difficult, absent continued restructuring of its operations, for the
Company to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis or to become profitable if the
overall industry revenue environment does not improve and fuel prices remain at historically high
levels for an extended period.



B. Competition
Major Competitors The domestic airline industry is fiercely competitive. Currently, any U.S. air
carrier deemed fit by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is free to operate scheduled
passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its possessions. Most major air
carriers have developed hub-and-spoke systems and schedule patterns in an effort to maximize the
revenue potential of their service. American operates five hubs: Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW), Chicago
O’Hare, Miami, St. Louis and San Juan, Puerto Rico. United Air Lines (United) also has a hub
operation at Chicago O’Hare. Delta Air Lines (Delta) previously operated a hub at DFW. In January
2005, however, Delta ceased hub operations at DFW. The American Eagle carriers increase the number
of markets the Company serves by providing connections at American’s hubs and certain other major
airports — Boston, Los Angeles, Raleigh/Durham and New York’s LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy
International Airports. The American Connection carriers provide connecting service to American
through St. Louis. American’s competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional
carriers which provide similar services at their major hubs and other locations.



On most of its domestic non-stop routes, the Company faces competing service from at least one, and
sometimes more than one, domestic airline including: AirTran Airways, Alaska Airlines, America West
Airlines, ATA Airlines, Continental Airlines (Continental), Delta, Frontier Airlines, JetBlue
Airways, Northwest Airlines (Northwest), Southwest Airlines, United and US Airways, and their
affiliated regional carriers. Competition is even greater between cities that require a
connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. In addition, the Company
faces competition on some of its routes from carriers operating point-to-point service on such
routes. The Company also competes with all-cargo and charter carriers and, particularly on shorter
segments, ground and rail transportation. On all of its routes, pricing decisions are affected, in
large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines.



The Company must compete with carriers that have recently reorganized or are reorganizing,
including under the protection of Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. It is possible that one or
more other competitors may seek to reorganize in or out of Chapter 11. Successful completion of
such out-of-court or Chapter 11 reorganizations could present the Company with competitors with
lower operating costs derived from renegotiated labor, supply and financing contracts.



International Air Transportation In addition to its extensive domestic service, the Company
provides international service to the Caribbean, Canada, Latin America, Europe and the Pacific.
The Company’s operating revenues from foreign operations were approximately 35 percent of the
Company’s total operating revenues in 2004 and 27 and 28 percent of the Company’s total operating
revenues in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Additional information about the Company’s foreign
operations is included in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.



3



Table of Contents

In providing international air transportation, the Company competes with foreign investor-owned
carriers, state-owned carriers and U.S. airlines that have been granted authority to provide
scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations. The major
U.S. air carriers have some advantage over foreign competitors in their ability to generate traffic
from their extensive domestic route systems. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit
U.S. air carriers’ rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign
countries. To improve access to each other’s markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers —
including American — have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail
companies. American currently has marketing relationships with Aer Lingus, Air Pacific, Air Tahiti
Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, China Eastern Airlines, Deutsche Bahn, EL
AL, EVA Air, Finnair, Gulf Air, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, Japan Airlines, Lan Airlines, Mexicana,
Qantas Airways, SN Brussels, SNCF, Southern Winds, Swiss International Air Lines, TACA Group, the
TAM Group and Turkish Airlines. In the coming years, the Company expects to develop these programs
further and to evaluate new alliances with other carriers.



American is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes Aer Lingus, British
Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Lan Airlines, Iberia, and Qantas. The oneworld alliance links the
networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the
destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers’ frequent flyer programs and
access to the carriers’ airport lounge facilities. Several of American’s major competitors are
members of marketing/operational alliances that enjoy antitrust immunity. To the extent that
American and British Airways, the largest members of the oneworld alliance, are restricted in their
relationship because they lack antitrust immunity, the carriers are at a competitive disadvantage
vis-à-vis other alliances that have antitrust immunity. Following permission from the DOT to
codeshare on a wide number of flights beyond the carriers’ gateways in the United Kingdom and the
United States, American and British Airways implemented their first phase of codeshare services in
2003 and expanded this cooperation further in 2004.



Price Competition The airline industry is characterized by substantial and intense price
competition. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the
Company’s financial results because the Company is generally required to match competitors’ fares
because failing to match would provide even less revenue. In January 2005, Delta implemented a
U.S.-wide simplified fare structure initiative, which the Company matched in most domestic markets.
The Company expects this simplified fare initiative to initially have a negative impact on its 2005
revenues. The longer-term impact on revenues is unclear at this time.



During recent years, a number of new LCCs have entered the domestic market and several major
airlines, including the Company, have implemented efforts to lower their costs. Lower cost
structures enable airlines to offer lower fares. In addition, several air carriers have recently
reorganized or are reorganizing under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, including
United and US Airways. In the past, air carriers involved in reorganizations have undertaken
substantial fare discounting in order to maintain cash flows and preserve their customer base.
Further fare reductions, domestic and international, may therefore occur in the future. If fare
reductions are not offset by increases in passenger traffic, changes in the mix of traffic that
improve yields (passenger revenue per passenger mile) and/or cost reductions, the Company’s
operating results will be negatively impacted.



Distribution Systems The growing use of electronic ticket distribution systems provides the
Company with an opportunity to lower its distribution costs. However, the continuous increase in
pricing transparency resulting from the use of the Internet has enabled cost-conscious customers to
more easily obtain the lowest fare on any given route. The Company continues to expand the
capabilities of its Internet website — AA.com — and the use of electronic ticketing throughout the
Company’s network. In addition, the Company has marketing agreements with Orbitz and other
Internet travel services.



4



Table of Contents

The majority of the tickets for travel on American and the American Eagle carriers continue to be
sold by travel agents. In 2002, American announced that it would no longer pay base commissions on
tickets issued by travel agents in the United States, Puerto Rico, and Canada (which generally were
five percent of the price of a ticket, capped at a maximum of $20 for a domestic roundtrip
itinerary and $100 for an international roundtrip). As discussed in Item 3 Legal Proceedings, the
Company is subject to legal challenges related to these changes. American continues, however, to
pay certain commissions to travel agents in connection with special revenue programs. American
believes that other domestic carriers also no longer pay base commissions on tickets issued by
travel agents in the U.S., Puerto Rico and Canada, but pay certain commissions in connection with
their own special revenue programs. Accordingly, airlines compete, not only with respect to the
price of the tickets sold, but also with respect to the amount of special revenue program
commissions that may be paid. In addition, American has been actively pursuing reducing base
commissions for international points of sale.



The Company also establishes incentive programs with corporate customers to increase revenues. The
Company believes that its network breadth and local market presence in key cities allow it to have
some advantages over other competitors.



C. Regulation
General The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic
regulation of passenger and freight transportation. However, the DOT and the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) still exercise certain regulatory authority over air carriers. The DOT
maintains jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, international route
authorities and certain consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied
boarding compensation and baggage liability.



The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including establishing personnel, aircraft and
certain security standards. As part of that oversight, the FAA has implemented a number of
requirements that the Company is incorporating into its maintenance programs. The Company is
progressing toward the completion of over 100 airworthiness directives including McDonnell Douglas
MD-80 metal-mylar insulation replacement, enhanced ground proximity warning systems, McDonnell
Douglas MD-80 main landing gear piston improvements, Boeing 757 and Boeing 767 pylon improvements,
Boeing 737 elevator and rudder improvements and Airbus A300 structural improvements. Based on its
current implementation schedule, the Company expects to be in compliance with the applicable
requirements within the required time periods.



The Department of Justice (DOJ) has jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal
Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.
Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which
vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain regulatory functions with respect to disputes
between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and collective bargaining
agreements.



International International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. The
Company’s operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between
the U.S. and the respective countries or governmental authorities (such as the European Union), and
in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign
governments. Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction
and regulations of various foreign agencies. Bilateral agreements between the U.S. and various
foreign governments of countries served by the Company are periodically subject to renegotiation.
Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or
termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, or otherwise adversely
affect the Company’s international operations. In addition, at some foreign airports, an air
carrier needs slots (landing and take-off authorizations) before the air carrier can introduce new
service or increase existing service. The availability of such slots is not assured and the
inability of the Company to obtain and retain needed slots could therefore inhibit its efforts to
compete in certain international markets.



5



Table of Contents

Security In November 2001, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) was enacted. The
ATSA created a new government agency, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which is
part of the Department of Homeland Security and is responsible for aviation security. The ATSA
mandates that the TSA provide for the screening of all passengers and property, including U.S.
mail, cargo, carry-on and checked baggage, and other articles that will be carried aboard a
passenger aircraft. The ATSA also provides for increased security in flight decks of aircraft and
requires federal air marshals to be present on certain flights.



Effective February 1, 2002, the ATSA imposed a $2.50 per enplanement security service fee ($5
one-way maximum fee), which is being collected by the air carriers and submitted to the government
to pay for these enhanced security measures. Additionally, for the years 2002, 2003 and 2004, air
carriers were required to submit to the government an amount equal to what the air carriers paid
for screening passengers and property in 2000. After 2004, this fee may be assessed based upon
some other allocation. However, air carriers will continue to submit to the government an amount
equal to what the carriers paid for screening passengers and property in 2000 until further notice.
The budget for fiscal year 2006 submitted by President Bush contains a spending proposal for the
Department of Homeland Security that would increase the per enplanement security service fee to
$5.50 ($8 one-way maximum fee for multiple segments). American and other carriers have announced
their opposition to this proposal as there is no assurance that any increase in fees could be
passed on to customers.



Airline Fares Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental
regulation. The DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but
applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are
sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which the Company
serves. While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs,
substantial commissions, overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers
characterize many international markets.



Airport Access The FAA has designated New York John F. Kennedy, New York LaGuardia, and
Washington Reagan airports as high-density traffic airports. The high-density rule limits the
number of Instrument Flight Rule operations — take-offs and landings — permitted per hour and
requires that a slot support each operation. In April 2000, the Wendell H. Ford Aviation
Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century (Air 21 Act) was enacted. It will
eliminate slot restrictions at New York John F. Kennedy and New York LaGuardia airports in 2007.
The Company expects that the elimination of these slot restrictions could create operational
challenges, but does not expect the elimination of these slot restrictions to have a material
adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



As a result of agreements reached with the FAA in 2004, the Company reduced operations at Chicago
O’Hare during certain peak times to improve dependability.



Currently, the FAA permits the purchasing, selling, leasing or transferring of slots except those
slots designated as international, essential air service or Air 21 Act slots (certain slots at the
New York John F. Kennedy, New York LaGuardia, and Washington Reagan airports). Trading of any
domestic slot is permitted subject to certain parameters. Some foreign airports, including London
Heathrow, a major European destination for American, also have slot allocations. Most foreign
authorities do not officially recognize the purchasing, selling or leasing of slots.



In addition, the Wright Amendment restricts certain flight operations at Dallas Love Field to a
limited geographic area. To the extent these flight restrictions are lifted in the future, it
could have an adverse financial impact on the Company.



Although the Company is constrained by slots, it currently has sufficient slot authorizations to
operate its existing flights. However, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to
obtain slots to expand its operations and change its schedules in the future because, among other
factors, slot allocations are subject to changes in government policies.



6



Table of Contents

Environmental Matters The Company is subject to various laws and government regulations
concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries.
U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on the Company include the Airport Noise and
Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the
Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act). Certain operations of the Company
are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
concerning employee safety and health matters. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact
on the Company’s operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been
delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local
governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of
which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.



The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise
abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign
commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have promulgated
aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. The ANCA
generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. While the Company has had
sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, the
Company’s operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more
restrictive or widespread.



American has been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for contamination at the former
Operating Industries, Inc. Landfill in Monterrey Park, CA (OII). American’s alleged volumetric
contributions at OII are small when compared with those of other PRPs. American is participating
with a number of other PRPs in a Steering Committee that has conducted extensive negotiations with
the EPA and state officials in recent years. Members of the Steering Committee, including
American, have entered into a series of partial consent decrees with EPA and the State of
California which address specific aspects of investigation and cleanup at OII. To date American
has paid approximately $1.25 million toward its share of cleanup costs under those consent decrees.
Together with a number of other small-volume PRPs at OII, American seeks a settlement that will
enable it to resolve all of its remaining past and present liabilities at OII in exchange for a
one-time, lump-sum settlement payment. The amount of American’s potential contribution towards
such a settlement is not yet known but American expects that its payments will be immaterial.



American also has been named as a PRP for contamination at the Double Eagle Superfund Site in
Oklahoma City, OK (Double Eagle). American’s alleged volumetric contributions are small when
compared with those of other PRPs. American is participating with a number of other PRPs at Double
Eagle in a Joint Defense Group that is actively conducting settlement negotiations with the EPA and
state officials. The group is seeking a settlement on behalf of its members that will enable
American to resolve its past and present liabilities at Double Eagle in exchange for a one-time,
lump-sum settlement payment. American expects that its payment will be immaterial.



American, along with most other tenants at the San Francisco International Airport (SFIA), has been
ordered by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board to engage in various studies of
potential environmental contamination at the airport and to undertake remedial measures, if
necessary. In 1997, the SFIA pursued a cost recovery action in the U.S. District Court of Northern
California against certain airport tenants to recover past and future costs associated with
historic airport contamination. American entered an initial settlement for accrued past costs in
2000 for $850,000. In 2004, American resolved its liability for all remaining past and future
costs. Based on SFIA’s cost projections, the value of American’s second settlement is
approximately $4 million payable over a 30 year period.



Miami-Dade County (the County) is currently investigating and remediating various environmental
conditions at the Miami International Airport (MIA) and funding the remediation costs through
landing fees and various cost recovery methods. American and AMR Eagle have been named PRPs for
the contamination at MIA. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for additional information.



7



Table of Contents

In 1999, American was ordered by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation
(NYSDEC) to conduct remediation of environmental contamination located at Terminals 8 and 9 at New
York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK). American is seeking to recover a portion of the
JFK remediation costs from previous users of the Terminals 8 and 9 premises. In 2004, American
entered a Consent Order with NYSDEC for the remediation of a JFK off-terminal hangar facility.
American expects that the projected costs associated with the JFK remediations will be immaterial.



In 1996, American and Executive, along with other tenants at the Luis Munoz Marin International
Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico (SJU) were notified by the SJU Port Authority that it considered
them potentially responsible for environmental contamination at the airport. In 2003, the SJU Port
Authority requested that American, among other airport tenants, fund an ongoing subsurface
investigation and site assessment. American denied liability for the related costs. No further
action has been taken against American or Executive.



American Eagle Airlines, Inc. (American Eagle) has been notified of its potential liability under
New York law at an inactive hazardous waste site in Poughkeepsie, New York. Pursuant to an
Administrative Order on Consent entered into with NYSDEC, American Eagle is implementing a final
remedy to address contamination at the site. The costs of this final remedy are immaterial.



The Company does not expect these matters, individually or collectively, to have a material impact
on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 4 to the consolidated
financial statements for additional information.



D. Labor
The airline business is labor intensive. Wages, salaries and benefits represented approximately 36
percent of the Company’s consolidated operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
average full-time equivalent number of employees of the Company’s subsidiaries for the year ended
December 31, 2004 was 92,100.



The majority of these employees are represented by labor unions and covered by collective
bargaining agreements. Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor
Act. Under this act, the collective bargaining agreements among the Company’s subsidiaries and
these organizations generally do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If
either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in
the manner described in the agreement. After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for
direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National
Mediation Board (NMB) to appoint a federal mediator. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the
NMB may declare at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB
proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration.
If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During that
period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the
parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by
another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement
is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may strike and the airline may
resort to “self-help”, including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the
hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers.



In April 2003, American reached agreements with its three major unions — the Allied Pilots
Association (the APA), the Transport Workers Union of America (AFL-CIO) (the TWU) and the
Association of Professional Flight Attendants (the APFA) (previously described as the Labor
Agreements). The Labor Agreements substantially reduced the labor costs associated with the
employees represented by the unions. In conjunction with the Labor Agreements, American
implemented various changes in the pay plans and benefits for non-unionized personnel, including
officers and other management (the Management Reductions). While the parties may begin discussions
in 2006, the Labor Agreements do not become amendable until 2008.



8



Table of Contents

The Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), which represents American Eagle pilots, reached agreement
with American Eagle effective September 1, 1997, to have all of the pilots of the American Eagle
carriers covered by a single collective bargaining agreement. This agreement lasts until October
31, 2013. The agreement provides to the parties the right to seek limited changes in 2000, 2004,
2008 and 2012. If the parties are unable to agree on the limited changes, they also agree that the
issues would be resolved by interest arbitration, without the exercise of self-help (such as a
strike). ALPA and American Eagle negotiated a tentative agreement in 2000, but that agreement
failed in ratification. Thereafter, the parties participated in interest arbitration. The interest
arbitration panel determined the limited changes that should be made and these changes were
appropriately effected. In 2004, the parties successfully negotiated limited changes that became
effective on January 1, 2005.



The Association of Flight Attendants (AFA), which represents the flight attendants of the American
Eagle carriers, reached agreement with American Eagle effective March 2, 1998, to have all flight
attendants of the American Eagle carriers covered by a single contract. The agreement became
amendable on September 2, 2001. The parties agreed to commence negotiations over amendments to
the agreement in March 2001. The mediation assistance of the NMB was requested and mediation
commenced in November 2003. The mediated negotiations continue. The other union employees at the
American Eagle carriers are covered by separate agreements with the TWU, which were effective April
28, 1998, and were amendable April 28, 2003. American Eagle and the TWU reached agreements with
respect to the TWU-represented work groups at various times in late 2004 and early 2005. They have
agreed that openers may be exchanged at least 60 days prior to October 1, 2007, for all of those
agreements.



The non-union employees formerly with TWA LLC have been integrated into American’s work force.
With respect to the integration of unionized employees formerly employed by TWA LLC, American
reached integration agreements with the APA (with respect to pilot integration) and the APFA (with
respect to flight attendant integration). American and the TWU participated in arbitration and
resolved certain unionized ground employee integration issues in late February and early March
2002. In early April 2002, the NMB declared American and TWA LLC a single carrier for labor
relations purposes and designated American’s incumbent unions as the collective bargaining
representatives of the relevant work groups at both American and TWA LLC. Since American’s unions
thereafter represented the relevant employees at both carriers, the integration mechanisms
applicable to the unions at American could then begin to be effected. The integration of the
unionized work groups has occurred in accordance with those mechanisms.



E. Fuel
The Company’s operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and
price of jet fuel. The Company’s fuel costs and consumption for the years 2002 through 2004 were:






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Gallons
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average Cost Per
 
 
 
 


 
 
Consumed
 
 
Total Cost
 
 
Gallon
 
 
Percent of AMR’s
 


Year
 
(in millions)
 
 
(in millions)
 
 
(in cents)
 
 
Operating Expenses
 




2002
 
 
3,345
 
 
$
2,562
 
 
 
76.2
 
 
 
12.3
 


2003
 
 
3,161
 
 
 
2,772
 
 
 
87.7
 
 
 
15.2
 


2004
 
 
3,264
 
 
 
3,969
 
 
 
121.6
 
 
 
21.1
 




The impact of fuel price changes on the Company and its competitors depends on various factors,
including hedging strategies. The Company has a fuel hedging program in which it enters into jet
fuel, heating oil and crude oil hedging contracts to dampen the impact of the volatility of jet
fuel prices. During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company’s fuel hedging program reduced the Company’s
fuel expense by approximately $99 million, $149 million and $4 million, respectively. As of
December 31, 2004, the Company had hedged, with option contracts, approximately 15 percent of its
estimated first quarter 2005 fuel requirements and minimal amounts of its estimated fuel
requirements thereafter. A deterioration of the Company’s liquidity position could negatively
affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future. See the Risk Factors under Item 7 for
additional information regarding fuel.



9



Table of Contents

Additional information regarding the Company’s fuel program is also included in Item 7(A) –
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk and in Note 7 to the consolidated
financial statements.



F. Frequent Flyer Program 
American established the AAdvantage frequent flyer program (AAdvantage) to develop passenger
loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. The Company believes that
the AAdvantage program is one of its competitive strengths. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits
for flights on American, American Eagle and certain other participating airlines, or by using
services of other program participants, including bank credit card issuers, hotels, car rental
companies and phone service companies. American sells mileage credits and related services to the
other companies participating in the program. American reserves the right to change the AAdvantage
program at any time without notice and may end the program with six months notice.



Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, American Eagle
or other participating airlines, or for other travel industry awards. Once a member accrues
sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel. Most travel awards are subject
to capacity controlled seating. Mileage credit does not expire, provided a customer has any type
of qualifying activity at least once every 36 months. See Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates under Item 7 for more information on AAdvantage.



G. Other Matters
Seasonality and Other Factors The Company’s results of operations for any interim period are not
necessarily indicative of those for the entire year, since the air transportation business is
subject to seasonal fluctuations. Higher demand for air travel has traditionally resulted in more
favorable operating and financial results for the second and third quarters of the year than for
the first and fourth quarters. Fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel
prices, labor actions, weather and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Unaudited
quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2004 is included in Note 15 to
the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the results of operations in the air
transportation business have also significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general
economic conditions.



No material part of the business of AMR and its subsidiaries is dependent upon a single customer or
very few customers. Consequently, the loss of the Company’s largest few customers would not have a
materially adverse effect upon the Company.



Insurance The Company carries insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage
and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft.



As a result of the Terrorist Attacks, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of
insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than
employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events
(war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for
aviation insurance in general.



The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines
until August 31, 2005 covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. In
addition, the Secretary of Transportation may extend the policy until December 31, 2005, at his
discretion. However, there is no assurance that it will be extended. If the U.S. government does
not extend the policy beyond August 31, 2005, the Company will attempt to purchase similar coverage
with narrower scope from commercial insurers at an additional cost. To the extent this coverage is
not available at commercially reasonable rates, the Company’s results of operations would be
negatively affected. While the price of commercial insurance has declined in recent years, in the
event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to
the Company, or significantly increase its cost, the Company’s operations and/or financial position
and results of operations would be adversely affected.



10



Table of Contents

Other Government Matters In time of war or during a national emergency or defense oriented
situation, American and other air carriers can be required to provide airlift services to the Air
Mobility Command under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program. In the event the Company has to provide
a substantial number of aircraft and crew to the Air Mobility Command, its operations could be
adversely impacted.



Available Information The Company makes its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 available free of charge under the Investor
Relations page on its website, www.aa.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are
electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company’s code
of ethics, which applies to all employees of the Company including the Company’s Chief Executive
Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Controller, is posted under the Investor Relations
page on its website, www.aa.com. The Company intends to disclose any amendments to the code
of ethics, or waivers of the code of ethics on behalf of the CEO, CFO or Controller, under the
Investor Relations page on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. The charters for the AMR
Board of Director’s standing committees (the Audit, Compensation, Diversity and
Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees) as well as the Board of Director’s Governance Policies
(the Governance Policies) are likewise available on the Company’s website, www.aa.com.
Upon request, copies of the charters or the Governance Policies are available at no cost.



11



Table of Contents




<!-- link2 "