
 
 

7
 


 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
 

13
 


 Item 2.
 
 Properties
 
 

13
 


 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
 

14
 


 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
 
 

15
 




 

Supplemental Item—Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
 

15
 



 PART II
 
 

 
 


 Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
 

17
 


 Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
 

19
 


 Item 7.
 
 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 

21
 


 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
 
 

33
 


 Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
 

34
 


 Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
 

77
 


 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
 

77
 


 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
 
 

79
 



 PART III
 
 

 
 


 Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
 

79
 


 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
 
 

79
 


 Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
 

80
 


 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
 

80
 


 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
 

80
 



 PART IV
 
 

 
 


 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
 

81
 


 Item 16.
 
 Form 10-K Summary
 
 

81
 



 SIGNATURES
 
 

 
 



 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

 
 





1




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART I     
 
    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS     




General  
        AAR CORP. and its subsidiaries are referred to herein collectively as "AAR," "Company," "we," "us," and "our" unless the context indicates
otherwise. AAR was founded in 1951, organized in 1955 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1966. We are a diversified provider of products and services to the worldwide aviation and government and
defense markets. 
        Beginning
in fiscal 2015, we implemented a comprehensive strategic plan to narrow our strategy to focus on our best in class aviation and expeditionary services through our two business
segments: Aviation Services and Expeditionary Services. We sold our Telair Cargo Group for cash of $714 million, resulting in pre-tax gains of $198.6 million in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2015 (and $27.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 from the receipt of contingent consideration). We used the proceeds from the sale in fiscal 2015 to reduce our total debt by
$480 million and we returned capital to shareholders through $151.5 million in common stock repurchases and $12.5 million of dividends. 
        In
fiscal 2016, our Aviation Services segment succeeded in expanding customer relationships and securing new program work with multiple international carriers. In our Expeditionary
Services segment, we completed the successful start-up of our new contract with the U.K. Ministry of Defence providing search and rescue services in the Falkland Islands. We maintained our focus on
shareholder return through additional common stock repurchases of $18.8 million and dividends of $10.4 million. 
        In
fiscal 2017, we increased our Aviation Services segment revenues by securing additional flight hour component inventory management and repair programs from our commercial airline
customers and investing in our capacity and business development resources. During fiscal 2017, our investment in business development resulted in the award of new contracts from commercial operators,
including South African Airways, Air New Zealand, flydubai, CommutAir, Allegiant Air, Small Planet Airlines, Enter Air, SaudiGulf, and ASL Aviation Holdings. Also during fiscal 2017, we invested over
$80 million in rotable assets to support our commercial aviation programs. We started to recognize revenue and income in fiscal 2017 on most of these contract awards and expect to continue the
ramp-up in fiscal 2018. 
        On
September 1, 2016, the Department of State awarded AAR Airlift Group, Inc. the contract for INL/A Global Aviation Support Services. This contract will leverage our
capabilities in aviation services, including flight operations, supply chain logistics, and other services. The potential duration of this contract is 11 years and the potential revenue stream,
including all related task orders, is $10 billion. The incumbent contractor filed a protest that was denied by the United States Government Accountability Office in December 2016 and
subsequently filed a separate protest with the United States Court of Federal Claims ("COFC"). The COFC stayed the contract award to AAR Airlift pending its decision on the protest. The COFC's
decision on the protest is expected on or before October 31, 2017. 
        In
our Expeditionary Services segment, the government markets we serve in support of troop movements and related activities continue to be weak with revenue and earnings significantly
lower than peak levels. 
        As
we enter fiscal 2018, we remain in a strong financial position to further execute on our strategy as a best in class aviation and expeditionary services company. Our cash on hand plus
unused capacity on our Revolving Credit Facility was $366 million at May 31, 2017. We expect to invest opportunistically in expanding our comprehensive suite of services to the global
commercial aviation and government and defense markets. We continue to have the flexibility in our balance sheet allowing us to invest in our growth. As we generate positive cash flow, we will
continue our past strategy of returning capital to our shareholders without hampering our future operating flexibility. 
2



 
Table of Contents




Business Segments  




Aviation Services  
        The Aviation Services segment provides aftermarket support and services for the commercial aviation and government and defense markets and
accounted for 84%, 84%, and 81% of
our sales in fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. In this segment, we also provide inventory management and distribution services, maintenance, repair and overhaul ("MRO"), and engineering
services. Business activities in this segment are primarily conducted through AAR Supply Chain, Inc. (formerly known as AAR Parts Trading, Inc.); AAR Aircraft & Engine
Sales & Leasing, Inc.; AAR Aircraft Services, Inc.; AAR Allen Services, Inc.; AAR Landing Gear LLC; and AAR International, Inc. 
        We
sell and lease a wide variety of new, overhauled and repaired engine and airframe parts and components to our commercial aviation and government/defense customers. 
        We
provide customized flight hour component inventory and repair programs, warranty claim management, and outsourcing programs for engine and airframe parts and components in support of
our airline and government customers' maintenance activities. The types of services provided under these programs include material planning, sourcing, logistics, information and program management,
and parts and component repair and overhaul. We are also an authorized distributor for more than 70 leading aviation product manufacturers. 
        We
also provide customized performance-based supply chain logistics programs in support of the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD") and foreign governments. The types of services provided
under these programs include material planning, sourcing, logistics, information and program management, airframe maintenance and maintenance planning, and component repair and overhaul. 
        We
provide major airframe inspection, maintenance, repair and overhaul, painting services, line maintenance, airframe modifications, structural repairs, avionic service and installation,
exterior and interior refurbishment, and engineering services and support for many types of commercial and military aircraft. We also repair and overhaul various components, landing gears, wheels, and
brakes for commercial and military aircraft. 
        We
operate five airframe maintenance facilities and one landing gear overhaul facility. Our landing gear overhaul facility is in Miami, Florida, where we repair and overhaul landing
gear, wheels, brakes, and actuators for different types of commercial and military aircraft. Our airframe maintenance facilities are in Indianapolis, Indiana; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Duluth,
Minnesota; Miami, Florida; and Rockford, Illinois. In fiscal 2017, we transitioned our facility in Lake Charles, Louisiana from an airframe maintenance facility to a more limited operation focused on
painting services. 
        Activities
in our Aviation Services segment also include the sale and lease of used commercial aircraft. Each sale or lease is negotiated as a separate agreement that includes term,
price, representations, warranties, and lease return provisions. During fiscal 2015, we sold our last two remaining wholly-owned aircraft and one aircraft owned with joint venture partners. At
May 31, 2017, our remaining portfolio consisted of two aircraft owned through joint ventures. 
        The
majority of our product sales are made pursuant to standard commercial purchase orders. U.S. government sales are generally made under standard types of government contracts,
including definite contracts which call for the performance of specified services or the delivery of specified products and ID/IQ (i.e., indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity) contracts.
Certain inventory supply and management and performance-based logistics program agreements reflect negotiated terms and conditions. 
        To
support activities within the Aviation Services segment, we acquire aviation parts and components from domestic and foreign airlines, independent aviation service companies, aircraft
leasing companies, and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM"s). We have ongoing arrangements with OEMs that provide us access to parts, repair manuals, and service bulletins in support of
parts manufactured by them. 
3



 
Table of Contents
Although
the terms of each arrangement vary, they typically are made on standard OEM terms as to duration, price, and delivery. From time to time, we purchase engines for disassembly into individual
parts and components. These engines may be leased to airlines on a short-term basis prior to disassembly. 




Expeditionary Services  
        The Expeditionary Services segment consists of businesses that primarily provide products and services supporting the movement of equipment and
personnel by the DoD, foreign governments and non-governmental organizations. The Expeditionary Services segment accounted for 16%, 16%, and 19% of our sales in fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015,
respectively. Business activities in this segment are primarily conducted through AAR Airlift Group, Inc.; AAR Manufacturing, Inc. and Brown International Corporation. 
        We
provide expeditionary airlift services to the United States and other government customers. Our expeditionary airlift services provide fixed-wing and rotary-wing flight operations.
These operations include search and rescue operations and the transportion of personnel and cargo principally in support of the DoD. We operate and maintain a fleet of special mission customized
fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft, principally in Afghanistan, Falkland Islands, and Northern Africa. We hold FAR Part 133 and 135 certificates to operate aircraft and a FAR Part 145
certificate to operate a repair station. We are also Commercial Airlift Review Board certified with the DoD. 
        We
design, manufacture, and repair transportation pallets, and a wide variety of containers and shelters used in support of military and humanitarian tactical deployment activities. The
containers and shelters are used in numerous mission requirements, including armories, supply and parts storage, refrigeration systems, tactical operation centers, briefing rooms, laundry and kitchen
facilities, water treatment, and sleeping quarters. Shelters include both stationary and vehicle-mounted applications. 
        We
also provide engineering, design, and system integration services for specialized command and control systems and design and manufacture advanced composite materials for commercial,
business and military aircraft. 
        Sales
in this segment are made to customers pursuant to standard commercial purchase orders and contracts. U.S. government sales are generally made under standard types of government
contracts, including definite contracts which call for the performance of specified services or the delivery of specified products and ID/IQ (i.e., indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity)
contracts. The majority of our products and services are procured via definite contracts. We purchase raw materials for this segment, including steel, aluminum, extrusions, balsa, and other necessary
supplies from several vendors. 




Raw Materials  
        Although we generated 54% of our fiscal 2017 sales from the sale of products, our businesses are generally engaged in limited manufacturing
activities and have minimal exposure to fluctuations in both the availability and pricing of raw materials. Where necessary, we have been able to obtain raw materials and other inventory items from
numerous sources for each segment at competitive prices, terms, and conditions, and we expect to be able to continue to do so. 




Terms of Sale  
        We generally sell our products and services under standard 30-day payment terms. On occasion, certain customers, principally foreign customers,
will negotiate extended payment terms of 60-90 days. Except for customary warranty provisions, customers neither have the right to return products nor do they have the right to extended
financing. Our contracts with the DoD and its contractors and other governmental agencies are typically firm agreements to provide products and services at a fixed price or on 
4



 
Table of Contents
a
time and material basis, and have a term of one year or less, frequently subject to extension for one or more additional periods of one year at the option of the government customer. 




Customers  
        The principal customers for our products and services in the Aviation Services segment are domestic and foreign commercial airlines, domestic
and foreign freight airlines, regional and commuter airlines, business and general aviation operators, OEMs, aircraft leasing companies, aftermarket aviation support companies, the DoD and its
contractors, and foreign military organizations or governments. In the Expeditionary Services segment, our principal customers include the DoD and its contractors, foreign governmental, defense
organizations, and OEMs. 
        Sales
of aviation products and services to our commercial airline customers are generally affected by such factors as the number, type and average age of aircraft in service, the levels
of aircraft utilization (e.g., frequency of schedules), the number of airline operators, the general economy, and the level of sales of new and used aircraft. Sales to the DoD and other
government agencies are subject to a number of factors, including the level of troop deployment worldwide, government funding, competitive bidding, and requirements generated by worldwide geopolitical
events. 
        We
primarily market and sell products and services through our own employees. In certain markets outside of the United States, we rely on foreign sales representatives to assist in the
sale of our products and services. 




Sales to Government and Defense Customers  
        Sales to global government and defense customers (including sales to branches, agencies, and departments of the U.S. government) were
$597.6 million (33.8% of consolidated sales), $652.8 million (38.4% of consolidated sales) and $592.3 million (36.5% of consolidated sales) in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015,
respectively. Sales to branches, agencies, and departments of the U.S. government and their contractors were $454.8 million (25.7% of consolidated sales), $523.6 million (30.8% of
consolidated sales), and $495.6 million (30.6% of consolidated sales) in fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Sales to government and defense customers are reported in each of our
reportable segments (See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Since such sales are subject to competitive bidding and government funding, no assurance can be given that such
sales will continue at levels previously experienced. The majority of our U.S. government contracts are for products and services supporting the DoD logistics and mobility strategy, as well as for
expeditionary airlift services. Thus, our government contracts have changed, and may continue to change, with fluctuations in defense and other governmental agency spending. Our government contracts
are also subject to termination by the customer; in the event of such a termination, we are entitled to recover all allowable costs incurred by us through the date of termination. 




Government Regulation and Certificates  
        The Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") regulates the manufacture, repair, and operation of all aircraft and aircraft parts operated in the
United States. Similar rules and regulatory authorities exist in other countries. The inspection, maintenance and repair procedures for the various types of aircraft and equipment are prescribed by
these regulatory authorities and can be performed only by certified repair facilities utilizing certified technicians. The FAA requires that various maintenance routines be performed on aircraft
engines, certain engine parts, and airframes at regular intervals based on take off and landing cycles or flight time. Our businesses which sell defense products and services directly to the U.S.
government or through its contractors can be subject to various laws and regulations governing pricing and other factors. 
        We
have 13 FAA certificated repair stations in the United States and Europe. Of the 13 certificated FAA repair stations, eight are also European Aviation Safety Agency ("EASA")
certificated repair stations. 
5



 
Table of Contents
Such
certificates, which are ongoing in duration, are required for us to perform authorized maintenance, repair and overhaul services for our customers and are subject to revocation by the government
for non-compliance with applicable regulations. Of the 13 FAA certificated repair stations, 12 are in the Aviation Services segment and one is in the Expeditionary Services segment. The eight EASA
certificated repair stations are in the Aviation Services segment. We also hold FAR Part 133 and 135 certificates to operate aircraft in our Expeditionary Services segment. We are also
Commercial Airlift Review Board certified with the DoD. We believe that we possess all licenses and certifications that are material to the conduct of our business. 




Competition  
        Competition in each of our markets is based on quality, ability to provide a broad range of products and services, speed of delivery, and price.
Competitors in our Aviation Services segment include OEMs, the service divisions of large commercial airlines, and other independent suppliers of parts, repair, and overhaul services to the commercial
and defense markets. Our Expeditionary Services segment competes with domestic and foreign contracting companies and a number of divisions of large corporations and other large and small companies.
Although certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, we believe that we have maintained a satisfactory competitive position through our
responsiveness to customer needs, our attention to quality, and our unique combination of market expertise and technical and financial capabilities. 




Backlog  
        Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to derive from unshipped orders or signed contracts. At May 31, 2017, backlog was
approximately $769.4 million compared to $978.7 million at May 31, 2016. Approximately $366.3 million of our May 31, 2017 backlog is expected to be filled within the
next 12 months. 




Employees  
        At May 31, 2017, we employed approximately 4,600 employees worldwide, of which approximately 125 employees are subject to a
collective bargaining agreement. We also retain approximately 750 contract workers, the majority of whom are located at our airframe maintenance facilities. 




Available Information  
        For additional information concerning our business segments, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" and "Business Segment Information" in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 
        Our
internet address is www.aarcorp.com. We make available free of charge through our web site our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained on our web site is not a part of this report. 
6




 










Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS     
        The following is a description of the principal risks inherent in our business. 




We are affected by factors that adversely impact the commercial aviation industry.  
        As a provider of products and services to the commercial aviation industry, we are greatly affected by overall economic conditions of that
industry. The commercial aviation industry is historically cyclical and has been negatively affected in the past by geopolitical events, high fuel and oil prices, lack of capital, and weak economic
conditions. As a result of these and other events, from time to time certain of our customers have filed for bankruptcy protection or ceased operation. The impact of instability in the global
financial markets may lead airlines to reduce domestic or international capacity. In addition, certain of our airline customers have in the past been impacted by tight credit markets, which limited
their ability to buy parts, services, engines, and aircraft. 
        A
reduction in the operating fleet of aircraft both in the U.S. and abroad will result in reduced demand for parts support and maintenance activities for the type of aircraft affected.
Further, tight credit conditions negatively impact the amount of liquidity available to buy parts, services, engines, and aircraft. A deteriorating airline environment may also result in additional
airline bankruptcies, and in such circumstances we may not be able to fully collect outstanding accounts receivable. Reduced demand from customers caused by weak economic conditions, including tight
credit conditions and customer bankruptcies, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. 
        Our
business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth rates may be adversely affected by these and other events that impact the aviation industry, including the
following:


• deterioration in the financial condition of our existing and potential customers; 
• reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support;  
• retirement of older generation aircraft, resulting in lower prices for spare parts and services for those aircraft;  
• reductions in demand for used aircraft and engines; 
• increased in-house maintenance by airlines; 
• lack of parts in the marketplace; 
• acts of terrorism; 
• future outbreaks of infectious diseases; and 
• acts of God. 





Our U.S. government contracts may not continue at present sales levels, which may have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  
        Our sales to branches, agencies and departments of the U.S. government and their contractors were $454.8 million (25.7% of consolidated
sales) in fiscal 2017 (See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The majority of our U.S. government contracts is for products and services supporting DoD logistics and
mobility strategy, as well as for expeditionary airlift services and is, therefore, subject to changes in defense and other governmental agency funding and spending. Our contracts with the U.S.
government, including the DoD and its contractors, are typically agreements to provide products and services at a fixed price and have a term of one year or less, frequently subject to extension for
one or more additional periods of one year at the option of the
government customer. Sales to agencies of the U.S. government and their contractors are subject to a number of factors, including the level of troop 
7



 
Table of Contents
deployment
worldwide, competitive bidding, U.S. government funding, requirements generated by world events, and budgetary constraints. 
        U.S.
government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by
larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (the "Budget Act") which raised the statutory limit on the amount of permissible federal debt (the
debt ceiling) until March 2017 and raised the sequester caps imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011. The suspension of the federal debt limit has not been extended beyond March 2017 which could
negatively affect the timely collection of our U.S. government invoices. 
        Future
congressional appropriation and authorization of defense spending and the application of sequestration remain marked by significant debate and an uncertain schedule. The federal
debt limit continues to be actively debated as plans for long-term national fiscal policy are discussed. The outcome of these debates could have a significant impact on defense spending broadly and
programs we support in particular. 
        If
the existing federal debt limit is not raised, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S. government contracts even if the U.S.
government is unable to make timely payments. Future budget cuts, including cuts mandated by sequestration, or future procurement decisions could result in reductions, cancellations, and/or delays of
existing contracts or programs which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




We face risks of cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts.  
        We sell certain of our products and services to our commercial, government, and defense customers under firm contracts providing for fixed unit
prices, regardless of costs incurred by us. The cost of producing products or providing services may be adversely affected by increases in the cost of labor, materials, fuel, overhead, and other
unknown variants, including manufacturing and other operational inefficiencies and differences between assumptions used by us to price a contract and actual
results. Increased costs may result in cost overruns and losses on such contracts, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Success at our airframe maintenance facilities is dependent upon continued outsourcing by the airlines.  
        We currently perform airframe maintenance, repair and overhaul activities at five leased facilities. Revenues at these facilities fluctuate
based on demand for maintenance which, in turn, is driven by the number of aircraft operating and the extent of outsourcing of maintenance activities by airlines. In addition, certain airlines operate
certain new fleet types and/or newer generation aircraft and we may not have contractual arrangements to service these aircraft nor technicians trained and certified to perform the required airframe
maintenance, repair and overhaul activities. If either the number of aircraft operating or the level of outsourcing of maintenance activities declines, we may not be able to execute our operational
and financial plans at our maintenance, repair and overhaul facilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




We operate in highly competitive markets, and competitive pressures may adversely affect us.  
        The markets for our products and services to our commercial, government, and defense customers are highly competitive, and we face competition
from a number of sources, both domestic and international. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, aircraft component and parts manufacturers, airline and aircraft service companies, other
companies providing maintenance, repair and overhaul services, other aircraft spare parts distributors and redistributors, and other expeditionary airlift service providers. Some of our competitors
have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and others may price their products and services below our selling prices. We believe that our ability to compete depends 
8



 
Table of Contents
on
superior customer service and support, on-time delivery, sufficient inventory availability, competitive pricing and effective quality assurance programs. 
        Our
government customers, including the DoD, may turn to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for certain work, or may utilize small business contractors
or determine to source work internally rather than use us. We are also impacted by bid protests from unsuccessful
bidders on new program awards. Bid protests could result in significant expense for us, contract modifications, or the award decision being overturned and loss of the contract award. Even where a bid
protest does not result in the loss of an award, the resolution can extend the time until the contract activity can begin, and delay earnings. These competitive pressures, with potential impacts on
both our commercial and government business, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




We are subject to significant government regulation and may need to incur significant expenses to comply with
new or more stringent governmental regulation.  
        The aviation industry is highly regulated by the FAA in the United States and equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. Before we sell
any of our products that are to be installed in an aircraft, such as engines, engine parts and components, and airframe and accessory parts and components, they must meet certain standards of
airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in certain other countries. We operate repair stations that are licensed by the FAA and the equivalent regulatory agencies in
certain other countries, and hold certificates to operate aircraft. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although regulatory requirements in other countries are generally satisfied by
compliance with FAA requirements. New and more stringent governmental regulations may be adopted in the future that, if enacted, may have an adverse impact on us. 
        If
any of our material licenses, certificates, authorizations, or approvals were revoked or suspended by the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries, our results of
operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 




If we fail to comply with government procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable
for various penalties or sanctions.  
        We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of U.S. government contracts. These laws and
regulations include the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations, the Truth in Negotiations Act, Cost Accounting Standards, and laws, regulations, and orders
restricting the use and dissemination of classified information under the U.S. export control laws and the export of certain products and technical information. Certain government contracts provide
audit rights by government agencies, including with respect to performance, costs, internal controls and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In complying with these laws and regulations,
we may incur significant costs, and non-compliance may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, including contractual damages. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or if a
government audit, review, or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil penalties, criminal penalties, or administrative sanctions, including suspension or
debarment from contracting with the U.S. government.
Our reputation could suffer harm if allegations of impropriety were made or found against us, which could adversely affect our operating performance and may result in additional expenses and possible
loss of revenue. 




A significant portion of our expeditionary airlift revenue is derived from providing expeditionary airlift
services in Afghanistan.  
        Our expeditionary airlift business derives a significant portion of its revenue from providing expeditionary airlift services in Afghanistan for
the DoD. The U.S. has been reducing military activities in Afghanistan and the number of troops in Afghanistan is currently less than 10,000. Our expeditionary 
9



 
Table of Contents
airlift
services revenue will likely experience further declines should troop reductions occur in Afghanistan or we do not receive task orders for future services under our indefinite delivery,
indefinite quantity contract awards. 
        We
are bidding on expeditionary airlift contracts in other regions supporting both DoD and non-DoD customers, although there can be no assurance we will be awarded any of these
contracts. Although we expect ongoing demand for expeditionary airlift services in Afghanistan and other regions from the DoD and other governmental departments, we are exposed to the risk that our
expeditionary airlift revenues may further decline if contracts are not renewed, renewed only in part, or are terminated, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition. If we are unable to successfully redeploy aircraft not actively supporting current customers at favorable rates or sell them on favorable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
        U.S.
government contractors that provide support services in theaters of conflict such as Afghanistan have come under increasing scrutiny by agency inspectors general, government
auditors and congressional committees. Investigations pursued by any or all of these groups may result in additional expense, adverse publicity for us and reputational harm, regardless of the
underlying merit of the allegations being investigated. 




We are exposed to risks associated with operating internationally.  
        We conduct our business in a number of foreign countries, some of which are politically unstable or subject to military or civil conflicts.
Consequently, we are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following:


• military conflicts, civil strife, and political risks; 
• export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; 
• compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, United Kingdom ("UK") Anti-bribery Act, and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption
laws; 
• the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties, and technical standards and changes in those regulations;  
• contract award and funding delays; 
• potential restrictions on transfers of funds; 
• import and export duties and value added taxes; 
• foreign exchange risk; 
• transportation delays and interruptions; 
• uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations; and 
• changes in U.S. policies on trade relations and trade policy, including implementation of or changes in trade sanctions, tariffs, and
embargoes. 

        In
addition, the UK held a referendum in 2016 in which voters approved an exit from the European Union ("EU"). On March 29, 2017, the UK government commenced the exit process
under Article 50 of the Treaty of the EU by notifying the European Council of the UK's intention to leave the EU. This notification starts a two-year time period for the UK and the remaining EU
countries to negotiate a withdrawal agreement. The terms of the UK's potential exit from the EU have yet to be determined and it is possible there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports
between the UK and EU countries along with increased regulatory complexities. 
10



 
Table of Contents
        While
we have adopted and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of doing business internationally, such measures may not be
adequate, and the regions in which we operate might not continue to be stable enough to allow us to operate profitably or at all. 




Acquisitions expose us to risks, including the risk that we may be unable to effectively integrate acquired
businesses.  
        We explore and have discussions with third parties regarding acquisitions on a regular basis. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties
in integrating the operations and personnel, the effects of amortization of any acquired intangible assets and the potential impairment of goodwill, and the potential loss of key employees of the
acquired business. In addition, acquisitions often require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. For any businesses we may acquire
in the future, we may not be able to execute our operational, financial, or integration plans for the acquired businesses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition. 




Market values for our aviation products fluctuate, and we may be unable to re-lease or sell aircraft and
engines when their current leases expire.  
        We make a number of assumptions when determining the recoverability of aircraft, engines, and other assets which are on lease or available for
lease. These assumptions include historical sales trends, current and expected usage trends, replacement values, current and expected lease rates, residual values, future demand, and future cash
flows. Reductions in demand for these assets or declining market values, as well as differences between actual results and the assumptions utilized by us when determining the recoverability of our
aircraft, engines, and other assets could result in impairment charges in future periods, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 
        We
lease aircraft and engines to our customers on an operating lease basis. Our ability to re-lease or sell these assets on acceptable terms when the lease expires is subject to a number
of factors which drive industry capacity, including new aircraft deliveries, availability of used aircraft and engines in the marketplace, competition, financial condition of our customers, overall
health of the airline industry, and general economic conditions. Our inability to re-lease or sell aircraft and engines could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




We may need to reduce the carrying value of our assets.  
        We own and distribute a significant amount of aircraft, aircraft parts and components, and manufacturing facilities and related equipment. The
removal of aircraft from service or recurring losses in certain operations could require us to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying
value of those assets and record an impairment charge through earnings to reduce the carrying value. We recognized impairment charges and other losses of $71.4 million in fiscal 2015 related to
our actions to address underperforming product lines and inventories. In addition, if aircraft or engines for which we offer replacement parts or supply repair and overhaul services are retired and
there are fewer aircraft that require these parts or services, our revenues may decline. 
        We
have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets related to acquisitions. If we are unable to achieve the projected levels of operating results, it may be necessary to record an
impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and related intangible assets. Similarly, if we were to lose a key customer or one of our airframe maintenance or landing gear facilities
were to lose its authority to operate, we might be required to record an impairment charge. 
11



 
Table of Contents




We are dependent upon continued availability of financing to manage our business and to execute our business
strategy, and additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us.  
        Our ability to manage our business and to execute our business strategy is dependent, in part, on the continued availability of debt and equity
capital. Access to the debt and equity capital markets may be limited by various factors, including the condition of overall credit markets, general economic factors, state of the aviation industry,
our financial performance, and credit ratings. Debt and equity capital may not continue to be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms could
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Our existing debt includes restrictive and financial covenants.  
        Certain loan and debt agreements, including our Revolving Credit Facility, require us to comply with various restrictive covenants and some
contain financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Our failure to meet these covenants could result in default under these loan and debt agreements and
may result in a cross-default under other debt agreements. In the event of a default and our inability to obtain a waiver of the default, all amounts outstanding under our debt agreements could be
declared immediately due and payable. Our failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Our industry is susceptible to product and other liability claims, and claims not adequately covered by
insurance may adversely affect our financial condition.  
        Our business exposes us to possible claims for property damage and bodily injury or death which may result if an engine, engine part or
component, airframe part or accessory, or any other aviation product which we have sold, manufactured, or repaired fails, or if an aircraft we operated, serviced, or in which our products are
installed, crashes. We carry substantial liability insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate for our risk exposure and commensurate with industry norms. However, claims may arise in the
future, and our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us in all circumstances. Additionally, we might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable
cost. Any liability claim not covered by adequate insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions.  
        Our businesses depend heavily on information technology and computerized systems to communicate and operate effectively. The Company's systems
and technologies, or those of third parties on which we rely, could fail or become unreliable due to equipment failures, software viruses, cyber threats, ransomware attacks, terrorist acts, natural
disasters, power failures or other causes. These threats arise in some cases as a result of our role as a defense contractor. 
        Cyber
security threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our sensitive information, ransomware attacks,
including our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and joint venture partners, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release
of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. 
        Although
we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, these procedures and controls may not be sufficient to prevent security threats from
materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified and could have a material adverse
effect on our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. 
12



 
Table of Contents
        Moreover,
expenditures incurred in implementing and maintaining cyber security and other procedures and controls could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




We must comply with extensive environmental requirements, and any exposure to environmental liabilities may
adversely affect us.  
        Federal, state, and local requirements relating to the discharge and emission of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous
wastes, the remediation and abatement of contaminants, and other activities affecting the environment have had and may continue to have an impact on our operations. Management cannot assess the
possible effect of compliance with future environmental requirements or of future environmental claims for which we may not have adequate indemnification or insurance coverage. If we were required to
pay the expenses related to any future environmental claims for which neither indemnification nor insurance coverage were available, these expenses could have an adverse impact on our results of
operations and financial condition. 
        Future
environmental regulatory developments in the United States and abroad concerning environmental issues, such as climate change, could adversely affect our operations and increase
operating costs and, through their impact on our customers, reduce demand for our products and services. Actions may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the United
States, foreign governments, the International Civil Aviation Organization, or by signatory countries through a new global climate change treaty to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the
aviation industry. The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to us and our customers are difficult to predict, but the impact to us and the aviation industry would likely be
adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits. 




We may need to make significant capital expenditures to keep pace with technological developments in our
industry.  
        The industries in which we participate are constantly undergoing development and change, and it is likely that new products, equipment, and
methods of repair and overhaul services will be introduced in the future. We may need to make significant expenditures to purchase new equipment
and to train our employees to keep pace with any new technological developments. These expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 




Our operations would be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled personnel or work stoppages.  
        We are dependent on an educated and highly skilled workforce because of the complex nature of many of our products and services. Furthermore, we
have a collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 125 employees. Our ability to operate successfully and meet our customers' demands could be jeopardized if we are unable to attract and
retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, including qualified licensed mechanics, to conduct our business, or if we experience a significant or prolonged work stoppage. These and similar events
may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  
 
   