
 
You
should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks
and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us
or that we currently deem immaterial could also impair our business operations. If any of the following risk factors occur, our
reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
 
If
we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, many of which have greater market presence and resources than us, our
reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
 
Our
financial condition and operating results are directly related to our ability to compete in the intensely competitive global pharmaceutical
and chemical markets. We face intense competition from global and regional distributors of pharmaceutical and chemical products,
many of which are large pharmaceutical and chemical manufacturers as well as distributors. Many of these companies have substantially
greater resources than us, including, among other things, greater financial, marketing and distribution resources. We cannot assure
you that we will be able to compete successfully with any of these companies. In addition, increased competition could result
in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share for our products, all of which could materially adversely affect
our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
Our
distribution operations of finished dosage form generic drugs and APIs are subject to the risks of the generic pharmaceutical
industry. 
 
The
ability of our business to provide consistent, sequential quarterly growth is affected, in large part, by our participation in
the launch of new products by generic manufacturers and the subsequent advent and extent of competition encountered by these products.
Revenues and gross profit derived from the sales of generic pharmaceutical products tend to follow a pattern based on certain
regulatory and competitive factors. This competition can result in significant and rapid declines in pricing with a corresponding
decrease in net sales. Net selling prices of generic drugs typically decline over time, sometimes dramatically, as additional
generic pharmaceutical companies receive approvals and enter the market for a given generic product and competition intensifies.
When additional versions of one of our generic products enter the market, we generally lose market share and our selling prices
and margins on that product decline. 
 
We
may experience declines in sales volumes or prices of certain of our products as the result of the concentration of sales to wholesalers
and the continuing trend towards consolidation of such wholesalers and other customer groups which could have a material adverse
impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 
 
Wholesalers
and retail drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation may result
in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our finished
dosage form generic business. The result of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
position, results of operations and cash flows.
 
Our
pipeline of products in development may be subject to regulatory delays at the FDA. Delays in key products could have material
adverse effects on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
Our
future revenue growth and profitability are partially dependent upon our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis in
relation to our competitors’ product introductions. Our failure to do so successfully could materially adversely affect
our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Many products require FDA approval or the equivalent
regulatory approvals in our overseas markets prior to being marketed. The process of obtaining FDA/regulatory approval to market
new and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time-consuming, costly and often unpredictable. We may be unable to obtain
requisite FDA approvals on a timely basis for new generic products.
 
If
brand pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of generics through their legislative and regulatory efforts,
our sales of generic products may suffer.
 
Many
brand pharmaceutical companies increasingly have used state and federal legislative and regulatory means to delay generic competition.
These efforts have included:
 

•pursuing
                                         new patents for existing products which may be granted just before the expiration of
                                         one patent which could extend patent protection for additional years or otherwise delay
                                         the launch of generics;

•using
                                         the Citizen Petition process to request amendments to FDA standards;
 

8
 


 

•seeking
                                         changes to U.S. Pharmacopoeia, an organization which publishes industry recognized compendia
                                         of drug standards;

•attaching
                                         patent extension amendments to non-related federal legislation; and

•engaging
                                         in state-by-state initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution of
                                         some generic drugs, which could have an impact on products that we are developing.
  
If brand
pharmaceutical companies are successful in limiting the use of generic products through these or other means, our sales may decline.
A material decline in product sales could have material adverse effects on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating
results and cash flows. 
 
Our
policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers may reduce our revenues
in future fiscal periods.
 
Based
on industry practice, generic drug manufacturers have liberal return policies and have been willing to give customers post-sale
inventory allowances. Under these arrangements, from time to time we give our customers credits on our generic products that our
customers already hold in inventory after we have decreased the market prices of the same generic products due to competitive
pricing. Therefore, if new competitors enter the marketplace and significantly lower the prices of any of their competing products,
we could reduce the price of our product. As a result, we would be obligated to provide credits to our customers who are
then holding inventories of such products, which could reduce sales revenue and gross margin for the period the credit is provided.
Like our competitors, we also give credits for chargebacks to wholesalers that have contracts with us for their sales to hospitals,
group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other customers.
 
A chargeback
is the difference between the price the wholesaler pays and the price that the wholesaler’s end-customer pays for a product.
Although we establish reserves based on our prior experience and our best estimates of the impact that these policies may have
in subsequent periods, we cannot ensure that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, allowances and chargebacks
will not exceed our estimates.
 
The
regulatory approval process outside the U.S. varies depending on foreign regulatory requirements, and failure to obtain regulatory
approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent the marketing of our products in those jurisdictions.
 
We have
certain worldwide intellectual property rights to market some of our products and product candidates. We intend to seek approval
to market certain of our products outside of the U.S. To market our products in the European Union and other foreign jurisdictions,
we must obtain separate regulatory authorization and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. Approval of a product
by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must be obtained prior to marketing that product in those countries.
The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may
differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated
with obtaining FDA approval set forth herein and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of
any other country, nor does the approval by foreign regulatory authorities in one country ensure approval by regulatory authorities
in other foreign countries or the FDA. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required
approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to generate revenue from abroad will be adversely affected.
 
Our
growth and development will depend on developing, commercializing and marketing new products, including both our own products
and those developed with our collaboration partners. If we do not do so successfully, our growth and development will be impaired.
 
Our
future revenues and profitability will depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to successfully commercialize new generic
pharmaceutical products in a timely manner. As a result, we must continually develop and test new products, and these new products
must meet regulatory standards and receive requisite regulatory approvals. Products we are currently developing may or may not
achieve the technology success or receive the regulatory approvals or clearances necessary for us to market them. Furthermore,
the development and commercialization process is time-consuming and costly, and we cannot assure you that any of our products,
if and when developed and approved, can be successfully commercialized. Some of our collaboration partners may decide to make
substantial changes to a product’s formulation or design, may experience financial difficulties or have limited financial
resources, any of which may delay the development, commercialization and/or marketing of new products. In addition, if a co-developer
on a new product terminates our collaboration agreement or does not perform under the agreement, we may experience delays and,
possibly, additional costs in developing and marketing that product.
 


9
 

 
If
we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs, and our business reputation could be adversely affected.

 
We may
be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause injury or illness, or if we are
alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which
would reduce operating profit and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. Product
recalls may hurt the value of our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. Product recalls also may lead to increased
scrutiny by federal, state or international regulatory agencies of our operations and increased litigation and could have a material
adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
Dependence
on a limited number of suppliers of Human Health and Pharmaceutical Ingredients products could lead to delays, lost revenue or
increased costs.
 
Our
future operating results may depend substantially on our suppliers’ ability to timely provide Human Health and Pharmaceutical
Ingredients products in connection with ANDAs and such suppliers’ ability to supply us with these ingredients or materials
in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. A number of the ingredients or materials that we use are available
from only a single or limited number of qualified suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. If there is a significant
increase in demand for an ingredient or other material resulting in an inability to meet demand, if an ingredient or material
is otherwise in short supply or becomes wholly unavailable, or if a supplier has a quality issue, we may experience delays or
increased costs in obtaining that ingredient or material. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of ingredients or other
necessary materials, we may experience production delays in our supply.
 
Each
of the following could also interrupt the supply of, or increase the cost of, ingredients or other materials:
 
•
     an unwillingness of a supplier to supply ingredients or other materials to us; 
•

     consolidation of key suppliers; 
•

     failure of a key supplier’s business process; 
•

     a key supplier’s inability to access credit necessary to operate its business; or 
•

     failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an independent supplier, or to adjust to market conditions.
 
Any
interruption in the supply or increase in the cost of ingredients or other materials provided by single or limited source suppliers
could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
Our
success in our Human Health segment is linked to the size and growth rate of the generic pharmaceutical, vitamin, mineral and
supplement markets and an adverse change in the size or growth rate of these markets could have a material adverse effect on us.

 
An adverse
change in size or growth rate of the generic pharmaceutical, vitamin, mineral and supplement markets could have a material adverse
effect on us. Underlying market conditions are subject to change based on economic conditions, consumer preferences and other
factors that are beyond our control, including media attention and scientific research, which may be positive or negative.
 
Healthcare
reform and a reduction in the reimbursement levels by governmental authorities, HMOs, MCOs or other third-party payors could materially
adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 
 
Third
party payors increasingly challenge pricing of pharmaceutical products. The trend toward managed healthcare, the growth of organizations
such as HMOs and MCOs and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence
the purchase of pharmaceutical products, resulting in lower prices and a reduction in product demand. Such cost containment measures
and healthcare reform could affect our ability to sell our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
 
Any
failure to comply with the complex reporting and payment obligations under Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs may
result in litigation or sanctions.
 
We are
subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, false claims, marketing
and pricing laws. We are also subject to Medicaid and other government reporting and payment obligations that are highly complex
and somewhat ambiguous. Violations of these laws and reporting obligations are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions and
exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The recent healthcare reform
legislation made several changes to the federal anti-kickback statute, false claims laws, and health care fraud statute such as
increasing penalties and making it easier for the government to bring sanctions against pharmaceutical companies. If our past,
present or future operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations,
we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate
our business and negatively impact our financial results. Further, if there is a change in laws, regulations or administrative
or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged
as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
 


10
 

 
Our
future results could be materially affected by a number of public health issues whether occurring in the United States or abroad.
 
Public
health issues, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers
or customers, or have a broader adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels that would negatively affect our suppliers
and customers. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
 
Our
revenue stream and related gross profit is difficult to predict.
 
Our
revenue stream is difficult to predict because it is primarily generated as customers place orders and customers can change their
requirements or cancel orders. Many of our sales orders are short-term and could be cancelled at any time. As a result, much of
our revenue is not recurring from period to period, which contributes to the variability of our results from period to period.
In addition, certain of our products carry a higher gross margin than other products, particularly in the Human Health and Pharmaceutical
Ingredients segments. Reduced sales of these higher margin products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance.
 
From
time to time we may need to rely on licenses to proprietary technologies, which may be difficult or expensive to obtain. 
 
We may
need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to develop, manufacture and market products.
If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to commercially market our products
may be inhibited or prevented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results
and cash flows.
 
Changes
to the industries and markets that Aceto serves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating
results and cash flows.
 
The
business environment in which we operate remains challenging. Portions of our operations are subject to the same business cycles
as those experienced by automobile, housing, and durable goods manufacturers. Our demand is largely derived from the demand for
our customers’ products, which subjects us to uncertainties related to downturns in our customers’ business and unanticipated
customer production shutdowns or curtailments. A material downturn in sales or gross profit due to weak end-user markets and loss
of customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
Our
operating results could fluctuate in future quarters, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.
 
Our
operating results could fluctuate on a quarterly basis as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things, the
timing of contracts, orders, the delay or cancellation of a contract, and changes in government regulations. Any one of these
factors could have a significant impact on our quarterly results. In some quarters, our revenue and operating results could fall
below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which would likely cause the trading price of our common stock to
decline.
 
We
have significant inventories on hand. 
 
The
Company maintains significant inventories. Any significant unanticipated changes in future product demand or market conditions,
including, among other things, the current uncertainty in the global market, could materially adversely affect the value of inventory
and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 


11
 

 
Failure
to obtain products from outside manufacturers could adversely affect our ability to fulfill sales orders to our customers. 
 
We rely
on outside manufacturers to supply products for resale to our customers. Manufacturing problems, including, among other things,
manufacturing delays caused by plant shutdowns, regulatory issues, damage or disruption to raw material supplies due to weather,
including, among other things, any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster or fire, could occur. If such problems
occur, we cannot assure that we will be able to deliver our products to our customers profitably or on time.
 
Increases
in the cost of shipping with our third-party shippers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
operating results and cash flows.
 
Shipping
is a significant expense in the operation of our business. Accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have
an adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our
operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis.
 
We
could incur significant uninsured environmental and other liabilities inherent in the chemical/pharmaceutical distribution industry
that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
The
business of distributing chemicals and pharmaceuticals is subject to regulation by numerous federal, state, local, and foreign
governmental authorities. These regulations impose liability for loss of life, damage to property and equipment, pollution and
other environmental damage that could occur in our business. Many of these regulations provide for substantial fines and remediation
costs in the event of chemical spills, explosions and pollution. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all
current laws and regulations, we can give no assurance that we will not incur material liabilities that are not covered by insurance
or exceed our insurance coverage or that such insurance will remain available on terms and at rates acceptable to us. Additionally,
if existing environmental and other regulations are changed, or additional laws or regulations are passed, the cost of complying
with those laws could be substantial, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, operating results
and cash flows.
 
In fiscal
years 2011, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company received letters from the Pulvair Site Group, a group of potentially responsible
parties (PRP Group) who are working with the State of Tennessee (the State) to remediate a contaminated property in Tennessee
called the Pulvair site. The PRP Group has alleged that Aceto shipped hazardous substances to the site which were released into
the environment. The State had begun administrative proceedings against the members of the PRP Group and Aceto with respect to
the cleanup of the Pulvair site and the PRP Group has begun to undertake cleanup. The PRP Group is seeking a settlement of approximately
$1,700 from the Company for its share to remediate the site contamination. Although the Company acknowledges that it shipped materials
to the site for formulation over twenty years ago, the Company believes that the evidence does not show that the hazardous materials
sent by Aceto to the site have significantly contributed to the contamination of the environment and thus believes that, at most,
it is a de minimis contributor to the site contamination. Accordingly, the Company believes that the settlement offer is unreasonable.
Management believes that the ultimate outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
condition or liquidity.
 
Our
subsidiary, Arsynco, has environmental remediation obligations in connection with its former manufacturing facility in Carlstadt,
New Jersey. Estimates of how much it would cost to remediate environmental contamination at this site have increased since the
facility was closed in 1993. If the actual costs are significantly greater than estimated, it could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
In March
2006, Arsynco received notice from the EPA of its status as a PRP under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act (CERCLA) for a site described as the Berry’s Creek Study Area (“BCSA”). Arsynco is one of
over 150 PRPs which have potential liability for the required investigation and remediation of the site. The estimate of the potential
liability is not quantifiable for a number of reasons, including the difficulty in determining the extent of contamination and
the length of time remediation may require. In addition, any estimate of liability must also consider the number of other PRPs
and their financial strength. In July 2014, Arsynco received notice from the U.S. Department of Interior (“USDOI”)
regarding the USDOI’s intent to perform a Natural Resource Damage (NRD) Assessment at the BCSA. Arsynco has to date declined
to participate in the development and performance of the NRD assessment process. Based on prior practice in similar situations,
it is possible that the State may assert a claim for natural resource damages with respect to the Arsynco site itself, and either
the federal government or the State (or both) may assert claims against Arsynco for natural resource damages in connection with
Berry’s Creek; any such claim with respect to Berry’s Creek could also be asserted against the approximately 150 PRPs
which the EPA has identified in connection with that site. Any claim for natural resource damages with respect to the Arsynco
site itself may also be asserted against BASF, the former owners of the Arsynco property. In September 2012, Arsynco entered into
an agreement with three of the other PRPs that had previously been impleaded into New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection,
et al. v. Occidental Chemical Corporation, et al., Docket No. ESX-L-9868-05 (the “NJDEP Litigation”) and were considering
impleading Arsynco into the same proceeding. Arsynco entered into an agreement to avoid impleader. Pursuant to the agreement,
Arsynco agreed to (1) a tolling period that would not be included when computing the running of any statute of limitations that
might provide a defense to the NJDEP Litigation; (2) the waiver of certain issue preclusion defenses in the NJDEP Litigation;
and (3) arbitration of certain potential future liability allocation claims if the other parties to the agreement are barred by
a court of competent jurisdiction from proceeding against Arsynco. In July 2015, Arsynco was contacted by an allocation consultant
retained by a group of the named PRPs, inviting Arsynco to participate in the allocation among the PRPs' investigation and remediation
costs relating to the BCSA. Arsynco declined that invitation. Since an amount of the liability cannot be reasonably estimated
at this time, no accrual is recorded for these potential future costs. The impact of the resolution of this matter on the Company's
results of operations in a particular reporting period is not currently known.


12
 

 
The
distribution and sale of some of our products are subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental
regulation. 
 
Our
products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including the Toxic Substances Control Act
as well as regulations requiring registration and approval of many of our products. More stringent restrictions could make our
products less desirable, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Some of our products are subject to the
EPA registration and re-registration requirements, and are registered in accordance with FIFRA. Such registration requirements
are based, among other things, on data demonstrating that the product will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health
or the environment when used according to approved label directions. Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may
require in the future, that certain scientific data requirements be performed on our products and this may require us, on our
behalf or in joint efforts with other registrants, to perform additional testing. Responding to such requirements may cause delays
in or the cessation of the sales of one or more of our products which would adversely affect our profitability. We can provide
no assurance that any testing approvals or registrations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or that our resources will
be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory compliance or that the economic benefit of complying with the requirement will exceed
our cost.
 
Incidents
related to hazardous materials could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results
and cash flows.
 
Portions
of our operations require the controlled use of hazardous materials. Although we are diligent in designing and implementing safety
procedures to comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state, and local regulations, the risk of accidental contamination
of property or injury to individuals from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an incident, we
could be liable for any damages that result, which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition,
operating results and cash flows.
 
We are
also continuing to expand our business in China and India, where environmental, health and safety regulations are still early
in their development. As a result, we cannot determine how these laws will be implemented and the impact of such regulation on
the Company.
 
Violations
of cGMP and other government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition
and results of operations.
 
All
facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture pharmaceutical products for clinical use or for commercial sale in
the United States and other Aceto markets must be operated in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”)
regulations as required by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Our suppliers’ facilities are subject to scheduled periodic
regulatory and customer inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP and other requirements applicable to such products. A finding
that we or one or more of our suppliers had materially violated these requirements could result in one or more regulatory sanctions,
loss of a customer contract, disqualification of data for client submissions to regulatory authorities and a mandated closing
of our suppliers’ facilities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
Our
business could give rise to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance or indemnity agreements or exceed insurance
policy or indemnity agreement limitations.

The marketing, distribution and use of pharmaceutical and chemical products involve substantial risk of product liability claims.
We could be held liable if any product we or our partners develop or distribute causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable
during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. A successful product liability claim that we have not insured against,
that exceeds our levels of insurance or for which we are not indemnified, may require us to pay a substantial amount of damages.
In the event that we are forced to pay such damages, this payment could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business,
financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 


13
 

 
We
source many of our products in China and changes in the political and economic policies of China’s government could
have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in China and our financial condition, operating results
and cash flows.
 
Our
business operations could be materially adversely affected by the current and future political environment in China. China has
operated as a socialist state since the mid-1900s and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. The Chinese government exerts
substantial influence and control over the manner in which companies, such as ours, must conduct business activities in China.
China has only permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities since 1988. The government of
China has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy, through
regulation and state ownership. Our ability to conduct business in China could be adversely affected by changes in Chinese
laws and regulations, including, among others, those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental
regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under its current leadership, the government of China has been
pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no
assurance, however, that the government of China will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter
these policies from time to time without notice.
 
China’s
laws and regulations governing our current business operations in China are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such
laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
China’s
legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents
unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation
and application of China’s laws and regulations, including among others, the laws and regulations governing the conduct
of business in China, or the enforcement and performance of arrangements with customers and suppliers in the event of the
imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive
system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters
such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and
regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack
of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws
and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what
effect the interpretation of existing or new laws or regulations may have on our business in China. If the relevant authorities
find that we are in violation of China’s laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation,
including, among other things: (i) levying fines and (ii) requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business in
China.
 
The
promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect
foreign businesses conducting business in China. While the trend of legislation over the last 20 plus years has significantly
enhanced the protection of foreign businesses in China, there can be no assurance that a change in leadership, social or
political disruption, or unforeseen circumstances affecting China’s political, economic or social life, will not affect
China’s government’s ability to continue to support and pursue these reforms. Such a shift could have a material adverse
effect on our business and prospects.
 
Our
ability to compete in certain markets we serve is dependent on our ability to continue to expand our capacity in certain offshore
locations. However, as our presence in these locations increases, we are exposed to risks inherent to these locations which could
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
A significant
portion of our outsourcing has been shifted to India. As such, we are exposed to the risks inherent to operating in India including,
among others, (1) a highly competitive labor market for skilled workers which may result in significant increases in labor costs
as well as shortages of qualified workers in the future, and (2) the possibility that the U.S. federal government or the European
Union may enact legislation which may disincentivize customers from producing in their local countries which would reduce the
demand for the services we provide in India and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating
results and cash flows.
 
Fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and
cash flows.
 
A substantial
portion of our revenue is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar because certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate
in their local currencies. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows therefore could be materially adversely
affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar.
 


14
 

 
Failure
to comply with U.S. or non-U.S. laws regulating trade, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, could result in adverse
consequences, including fines, criminal sanctions, or loss of access to markets.
 
We are
subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which, among other things, prohibits corporations and
individuals from paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official,
government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence
a person working in an official capacity. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately
and fairly reflect their transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. While our
employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot assure you that our internal policies and procedures will
always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence
or allegation of these types of events could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, operating
results and cash flows.
 
Tax
legislation and assessments by various tax authorities could be materially different than the amounts we have provided for in
our consolidated financial statements.
 
We are
regularly audited by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits could result in proposed assessments.
While we believe that we have adequately provided for any such assessments, future settlements could be materially different than
we have provided for and thereby materially adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.
 
We operate
in various tax jurisdictions, and although we believe that we have provided for income and other taxes in accordance with the
relevant regulations, if the applicable regulations were ultimately interpreted differently by a taxing authority, we could be
exposed to additional tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate is based on our expected geographic mix of earnings, statutory rates,
intercompany transfer pricing, and enacted tax rules. Significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and
in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. We believe our tax positions, including, among others, intercompany transfer
pricing policies, are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. It is possible that
these positions may be challenged by jurisdictional tax authorities and could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate.
In addition, from time to time, various legislative initiatives could be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions.
There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives.
 
Changes
in tax rules could adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.
 
Our
future reported financial results could be adversely affected if tax or accounting rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change.
The Obama administration announced several proposals to reform United States tax rules, including, among others, proposals that
could result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of United States tax on our unrepatriated earnings, potentially requiring
those earnings to be taxed at the United States federal income tax rate.
 
Our
business is subject to a number of global economic risks.
 
From
time to time, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have and could experience extreme disruption, including,
among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades
of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intending to address extreme
market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in values of certain assets.
 
An economic
downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for our products and result in
a decrease in revenue that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Continued volatility and disruption of financial
markets in the United States, Europe and Asia could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit
to purchase our products or to pay for outstanding invoices owed to us or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in
revenue or cash collections that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results
and cash flows.
 
We
have a significant amount of debt.
 
We
have a $137,000 credit facility of which $107,000 was outstanding at June 30, 2015. This facility expires in April 2019. If we
are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on the credit facility,
it will be in default. This current debt arrangement requires us to comply with several financial covenants. Our ability to comply
with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control and could result in a default under our credit facility, which
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 


15
 

 
Even
if we are able to meet our debt service obligations, the amount of debt we have could adversely affect us by limiting our ability
to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, dividend payments, capital expenditures, debt service requirements,
or other purposes. It also places us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors who have lower levels of debt, while making
us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy in general. It also requires us to use a substantial portion of
our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, instead of investing those funds in the business.
 
Our
acquisition strategy is subject to a number of inherent risks, including, among other things, the risk that our acquisitions may
not be successful.
 
We continually
seek to expand our business through acquisitions of other companies that complement our own and through joint ventures, licensing
agreements and other arrangements. Any decision regarding strategic alternatives would be subject to inherent risks, and we cannot
guarantee that we will be able to identify the appropriate opportunities, successfully negotiate economically beneficial terms,
successfully integrate any acquired business, retain key employees, or achieve the anticipated synergies or benefits of the strategic
alternative selected. Acquisitions can require significant capital resources and divert our management’s attention from
our existing business. Additionally, we may issue additional shares in connection with a strategic transaction, thereby diluting
the holdings of our existing common shareholders, incur debt or assume liabilities, become subject to litigation, or consume cash,
thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes.
 
Any
acquisition that we make could result in a substantial charge to our earnings.
 
We have
previously incurred charges to our earnings in connection with acquisitions, and may continue to experience charges to our earnings
for any acquisitions that we make, including, among other things, contingent consideration and impairment charges. These costs
may also include substantial severance and other closure costs associated with eliminating duplicate or discontinued products,
employees, operations and facilities. These charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and they
could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.
 
We
have significant goodwill and other intangible assets. Consequently, potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles may
significantly impact our profitability. 
 
Under
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), we are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least
annually. If we determine that the fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will be recorded in our statement
of income. The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based
on the assumptions used and methodologies employed. If our projected long-term sales growth rate, profit margins or terminal rate
are considerably lower and/or the assumed weighted average cost of capital is considerably higher, future testing may indicate
impairment and we would have to record a non-cash goodwill impairment loss in our statement of income.
 
Our
information technology systems could fail to perform adequately or we may fail to adequately protect such information technology
systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches.
 
We rely
on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information.
In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure to effectively manage its business data, supply chain, logistics,
accounting, and other business processes and electronic communications between our personnel and our customers and suppliers.
If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain an appropriate technology infrastructure,
our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows therefore could be materially adversely affected. In addition,
security breaches or system failures of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure
of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may
suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information.
 
Our
potential liability arising from our commitment to indemnify our directors, officers and employees could materially adversely
affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
We have
committed in our bylaws to indemnify our directors, officers and employees against the reasonable expenses incurred by these persons
in connection with any action brought against them in such capacity, except in matters as to which they are adjudged to have breached
a duty to us. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under this provision is unlimited.
While we have “directors and officers” insurance policies that should cover all or some of this potential exposure,
we could be adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or incur legal costs in connection with a claim above our insurance
limits.
 


16
 

 
Our
business could be materially adversely affected by terrorist activities.
 
Our
business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce worldwide. Instability due to military,
terrorist, political and economic actions in other countries could materially disrupt our overseas operations and export sales.
In fiscal years 2015 and 2014, approximately 33% and 36%, respectively of our revenues were attributable to operations conducted
abroad and to sales generated from the United States to foreign countries. In addition, in fiscal year 2015, approximately 65%
and 12% of our purchases came from Asia and Europe, respectively. In addition, in certain countries where we currently operate
or export, intend to operate or export, or intend to expand our operations, we could be subject to other political, military and
economic uncertainties, including, among other things, labor unrest, restrictions on transfers of funds and unexpected changes
in regulatory environments.
 
We
rely heavily on key executives for our financial performance.
 
Our
financial performance is highly dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our key executives. The loss of the services of any
of our key executives could therefore have a material adverse effect upon our financial position and operating results. We do
not maintain “key-man” insurance on any of our key executives.
 
Shortage
of qualified and technical personnel in a competitive marketplace may prevent us from growing our business.
 
We may
be unable to hire or retain qualified and technical employees and there is substantial competition for highly skilled employees.
If we fail to attract and retain key employees, our business could be adversely impacted.
 
Litigation
could harm our business and our management and financial resources.
 
Substantial,
complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and could distract our management. For example, lawsuits
by employees, stockholders, collaborators, distributors, customers, or end-users of our products or services could be very costly
and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we
cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on favorable terms.
 
The
market price of our stock could be volatile.
 
The
market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and may continue to be volatile in the future, due to a variety
of factors, including, among other things:
 

•quarterly
                                         fluctuations in our operating income and earnings per share results

•technological
                                         innovations or new product introductions by us or our competitors

•economic
                                         conditions

•tariffs,
                                         duties and other trade barriers including, among other things, anti-dumping duties

•disputes
                                         concerning patents or proprietary rights

•changes
                                         in earnings estimates and market growth rate projections by market research analysts

•any
                                         future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock
                                         splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and
                                         the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time

•sales
                                         of common stock by existing security holders

•loss
                                         of key personnel

•securities
                                         class actions or other litigation
  
The
market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts’ expectations. Any failure to meet
such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock
market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices
of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. 
 
There
are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in preparing financial statements in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Any changes in the estimates, judgments and assumptions we use could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.
 
The
consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Preparing financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to
change, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the reported amounts.
 


17
 

 
Changes
in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies
may adversely affect our financial statements. 
 
Our
financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly,
from time-to-time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including
the FASB and the SEC. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting
treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations and financial condition.
 
Failure
to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have material adverse
effect on our business and stock price.
 
Section 404
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting
as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over
financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K . Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting
firm to report on our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls,
we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting.
If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities,
such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the
market price of our common stock and may also result in delayed filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Compliance
with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure could result in additional expenses. 
 
Complying
with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including, among others,
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations will require the Company to expend additional resources. We are committed
to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we may be required to continue
to invest necessary resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment could result in increased
expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities.
 
