”, among others, could cause actual
results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements
made herein and presented elsewhere by management from time to time.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to
update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
All references in
this Annual Report to “AS&E”, the “Company”, “we”, “our” and “us” means
American Science and Engineering, Inc. and its subsidiary.
 
PART I
 
ITEM 1.
BUSINESS
 
American Science
and Engineering, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation formed in 1958, develops,
manufactures, markets, and sells X-ray inspection and other detection solutions
for homeland security and other targeted markets.  AS&E® provides maintenance, warranty, research,
engineering, and training services related to these solutions.
 
The Company
manufactures sophisticated X-ray inspection products that can be used to
inspect parcels, baggage, vehicles, pallets, cargo containers, and people.  The Company sells its products throughout the
world to a variety of customers, including:
 
·                  Authorities responsible for port and
border security;
 
·                  Military organizations;
 
·                  High threat commercial and government
facilities;
 
·                  Aviation security agencies; and
 
·                  Legal enforcement agencies
 
AS&E’s products are
used by these customers to help combat terrorism, trade fraud, drug
trafficking, weapons smuggling, and illegal immigration.  Our products are also used for military force
protection and general facility security.
 
Beginning with the
terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and continuing with the proliferation
of global terrorism, homeland security and force protection concerns have
become of paramount importance around the world. The Company believes that
homeland defense, force protection and military security initiatives will
continue to provide new opportunities, with additional growth in the seaports
and borders, federal and military facilities, and corporate security markets.
 
The Company’s
objective is to distinguish itself from its competitors by offering innovative
products which provide customers with superior threat detection and/or improved
operating efficiencies. To achieve this objective, AS&E incorporates a
variety of X-ray imaging and image processing technologies into its
products.  A number of the Company’s
products use our patented Z Backscatter™ technology.  Z Backscatter is a unique X-ray imaging
technique that has distinct advantages for the detection of organic or low
atomic number (Z) materials such as plastic explosives, composite weapons,
and illegal drugs even when concealed by complex backgrounds.
 
Technology
 
The Company’s
X-ray imaging products utilize several technologies including traditional
transmission X-ray technology, our proprietary Z Backscatter technology, Shaped
Energy® technology and Radioactive Threat Detection
(RTD).
 
X-ray imaging
devices contain these basic subsystems: X-ray sources, detectors and
software.  The source generates an X-ray
beam that is directed at the object to be scanned (baggage, container, or
similar object).  When the source X-rays
encounter the object, they are either absorbed by the object, pass directly
through the object, or scatter off of the object.  Dense (high atomic number) materials tend to
absorb X-rays.  Materials that are less
dense (low atomic number) tend to scatter X-rays.  The detectors record the intensity of the
transmitted or scattered X-rays. 
Software is then used to interpret the signals from the detectors and to
construct and display X-ray images.
 
Transmission
X-ray Technology:  Transmission images are created from X-rays
that pass through the object that is being examined.  Medical X-ray images are a type of
transmission X-ray.  In transmission
imaging, the detector measures the relative intensity of the X-rays that pass
directly through the object.  The degree
to which X-rays are transmitted through an object is
 
3





Table of Contents
 
dependent upon the size
of the X-ray source and the composition and quantity of the material in the
path of the X-ray beam.  Low energy
sources are used to scan smaller objects such as parcels and baggage, and high
energy sources are used for scanning large items such as trucks and cargo
containers.  Transmission X-ray images
are useful for seeing “through” the object of interest.  A transmission image, however, represents an
aggregate of all objects in the path on the beam and can therefore be difficult
to interpret.
 
Z
Backscatter Technology:   Most of the
Company’s X-ray systems utilize AS&E’s patented Z Backscatter
technology.  The term “Backscatter”
refers to those X-rays that scatter
off of the object under examination back
toward the X-ray source.  Z Backscatter
detectors capture these scattered X-rays which are then used to create highly
readable, photo-like images.
 
Many threat items
are organic in nature and have low atomic numbers.  Such items include drugs, explosives,
composite weapons, and stowaways.  These
items tend to scatter X-rays much more so than inorganic materials like steel
and other metals.  As a result, these
organic threat items tend to stand out as bright, visible objects when scanned
by a Z Backscatter imaging system.
 
Z Backscatter
images complement transmission images and several of the Company’s products
employ both technologies.  The
combination of backscatter and transmission images gives the operator more
information about the contents of the baggage or container by differentiating
dense materials, such as metals, from low-Z materials such as explosives.  In addition, the two images enable an
inspector to perform a quicker and more thorough examination of the object in
question.
 
Other Technologies:   Two other
technologies employed by AS&E are Shaped Energy and Radioactive Threat
Detection (RTD).  Shaped Energy
technology is a specialized form of high energy transmission X-ray which is
used in AS&E’s OmniView™.  Radioactive Threat Detection (RTD) is a
technology which is used to find radioactive materials in vehicles and is an
option on selected AS&E detection systems.
 
Products
and Systems
 
The Company’s
products and services can be grouped into five different areas including
CargoSearch Inspection Systems, Z Backscatter Systems, ParcelSearch and
Personnel Screening Inspection Systems, Contract Research and Development, and
Service and Support.
 
CargoSearch
Inspection Systems: The CargoSearch family of systems includes non-intrusive inspection
products which are primarily used for the screening of trucks, cars, cargo
containers, pallets, and air cargo at locations including border crossings,
seaports, military bases, railroad centers, airports, and cargo and transportation
hubs. The CargoSearch systems are designed to combat trade fraud, drug
trafficking, weapons smuggling, and terrorism. The CargoSearch family includes:
 
OmniView™ Gantry System: 
a multi-view, relocatable high-energy cargo and vehicle inspection
system.  This system combines 6 MeV
high-energy transmission imaging and three Z Backscatter X-ray views for left,
right and top-side imaging of cargo. 
OmniView provides side and top-down views of the cargo in a relocatable
configuration. OmniView utilizes AS&E’s patented Shaped Energy® technology to
penetrate densely loaded cargo containers. Shaped Energy “shapes” the high
energy spectrum to filter out non-essential radiation, making the system safe
for operators and staff and eliminating the need for extensive exclusion
zones.  High energy 6 MeV transmission
X-rays can penetrate 14 inches (35 cm) of steel or 8.5 feet (260 cm) of oil,
yet do not require heavy shielding, an exterior building, or standoff zones.   The Z Backscatter images are ideal for the
detection of organic or “low Z” materials including explosives, drugs, alcohol,
and tobacco that transmission X-rays alone can miss. The System’s multiple Z
Backscatter views of the cargo improve detection while facilitating
interpretation of the X-ray image.  The
OmniView Gantry System’s scanning platform operates by moving on rails past
stationary vehicles and cargo.  The
system is bi-directional allowing for a throughput of approximately 25 trucks
per hour.  OmniView Gantry is ideal for
ports, borders, and high-threat facilities.
 
Z Portal®:  a multi-view, high throughput, drive-through
inspection system capable of scanning cars, vans, trucks, and their cargoes for
threats and contraband.  The relocatable
screening system can be configured with one, two or three Z Backscatter X-ray
detectors, allowing for left, right and/or top-side imaging of the vehicle
under examination.  The images produced
by the Z Portal are ideal for the detection of organic materials including
explosives, drugs, alcohol, tobacco, and stowaways.  The Z Portal is well-suited for scanning
vehicles at border crossings, high threat facilities, and other vehicle entry
checkpoints.
 
Z Gantry™: a multi-view Z Backscatter inspection
system capable of scanning cars, vans, trucks, and their cargo for concealed
threats and contraband in a gantry configuration. The relocatable Z Gantry
screening system is configured with three Z Backscatter imaging modules,
allowing a left, right, and top view of the vehicle under examination.  The rail-mounted Z Gantry system moves over
the top of stationary vehicles and cargo while scanning for threats and illegal
goods such as stowaways, explosives, drugs, and alcohol.
 
4





Table of Contents
 
Z Backscatter Systems:  Z
Backscatter Systems include imaging systems that use Z Backscatter imaging only.
 
Z Backscatter Van™ (ZBV): a mobile X-ray screening system built into a
commercially available chassis.  It
utilizes Z Backscatter X-ray technology to produce photo-like images of the
contents of a vehicle or cargo container, highlighting organic materials such
as plastic explosives or other anomalies. With one-sided, backscatter-only
imaging, security officials can use ZBV for screening vehicles, sea containers,
and other cargo for terrorist threats, trade fraud, and contraband, simply by
driving past the objects.   The ZBV can
be equipped with Radioactive Threat Detection (RTD) capability.  With RTD, the ZBV can produce Z Backscatter
images for general screening while simultaneously scanning the object for the
presence of radioactive material.  The
ZBV is available on a variety of chassis in several versions, including a
militarized trailer configuration (ZBV Mil Trailer) that is designed for use by
the U.S. military.
 
ParcelSearch
and Personnel Screening Inspection Systems: ParcelSearch systems are designed for the
non-intrusive X-ray scanning of parcels, baggage, and mail. These systems are
primarily located in government facilities, airports, commercial office
buildings, high-security federal facilities and convention centers.
 
Personnel
screening is a crucial part of any threat detection effort.  Today, threats can take the smallest of forms
and are often easily hidden on a person. 
With the advent of suicide bombings, personnel screening has taken on an
even more important role.  Personnel
screening is also important in the effort to intercept prohibited substances,
such as drugs and alcohol.
 
Gemini™: 
Gemini is a parcel and baggage inspection system which combines AS&E’s
Z Backscatter technology with dual-energy transmission X-ray to provide
enhanced detection for a wide range of threats. 
Dual-energy transmission is best suited for the detection of threats
such as guns and knives, and for identifying wires and other components of
improvised explosive devices (IEDs). It also provides some organic and metallic
discrimination in uncluttered environments. 
Z Backscatter imaging provides enhanced detection of organic materials
such as explosives and narcotics, which may be missed by transmission-only
systems in cluttered baggage.  In
addition, the complementary photo-like Z Backscatter image makes it easier for
security officers to interpret images, thus reducing analysis time and
minimizing operator fatigue. During fiscal 2009 the Company introduced two
additional Gemini models to customers with a range of tunnel sizes to suit
various applications.
 
SmartCheck™:  a personnel
screening system for the effective screening for contraband and threats hidden
under a person’s clothing.  SmartCheck
simultaneously detects both metallic and non-metallic objects, such as guns and
knives, plastic explosives, liquid explosives, composite weapons, drugs and
other hidden threats and contraband.  Its
Z Backscatter image gives the operator an easy-to-read display of where the
threat or contraband is hidden, thus eliminating the need for intrusive and
time-consuming pat-downs and strip searches. 
SmartCheck employs proprietary advanced image processing algorithms to
enhance privacy, while maintaining a high level of threat detection.
 
Contract Research & Development: 
AS&E engages in a variety of contract research and development
(CRAD) programs, mostly for agencies of the U.S. government.  AS&E pursues CRAD opportunities which it
believes provide avenues for advancing our core technologies or developing
product offerings for strategic customers or markets.
 
Service and Support:   AS&E’s
highly skilled Field Service Engineers (FSEs) provide support services
worldwide. Each FSE has a technical degree in Electrical and/or Mechanical
Engineering (or equivalent experience), and is trained in the operation and
repair of electronics, hydraulics, pneumatics, mechanics, electrical systems,
and computers. FSEs are available 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, and are
located at AS&E sites in Asia, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and North
America.  In addition, Technical Support
is provided at the Company’s headquarters in Billerica, Massachusetts. AS&E
provides comprehensive, cost-effective spare parts solutions customized for
each system.  The Company maintains an
inventory of field-replaceable components in various depots around the world in
order to meet customer needs for spare parts.
 
AS&E provides
comprehensive technical training on all X-ray inspection systems. Our
instructors specialize in current threat detection techniques and employ both
classroom theory and hands-on training to help clients become expert users of
AS&E equipment. Our technical training informs customers about detection
technologies and best practices through demonstrations and field activities
that simulate real-life threat and contraband encounters.  Technical training is included with each
system sale and additional training for image analysis, service and maintenance
training, and other customized training courses are provided aftermarket to
interested customers.
 
Intellectual
Property
 
The Company relies
on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, and
contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property.  In general, the
Company pursues a policy of obtaining patent protection both in the United
States and in selected foreign countries for subject matter we consider
patentable and important to our business strategy.  As of March 31, 2009, the Company has in
excess of 40 unexpired patents issued by the United States Patent and Trademark
Office and multiple pending applications directed to a variety of
technologies.  The Company also has
granted patents or pending
 
5





Table of Contents
 
applications pursuant to
the following treaties and/or in the following countries: Patent Cooperation
Treaty, European Patent Convention, Gulf Cooperation Counsel, Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Hong Kong, India, Israel, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Russian Federation, Singapore,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom.  A significant number of
our patents have been issued in the last five years.
 
Generally, if
pending on June 8, 1995, a patent issued in the United States is effective
for the longer of 17 years from the date of issue or 20 years from the United
States filing date of the earliest non-provisional application upon which the
patent is based.  If filed after June 8,
1995, a patent is generally effective for a term of 20 years from the United
States filing date of the earliest non-provisional application upon which the
patent is based.  The duration of foreign
patents varies in accordance with applicable local law. While the duration of
our patents varies, we believe that the duration of our patents is adequate
relative to the expected lives of our products. Although the Company believes
the ownership of such patents, copyrights, and trademarks is an important
factor in its business and that its success depends in part on the ownership
thereof, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical
competence, and marketing abilities of its personnel.
 
The Company also
has various trademarks registered and pending registration with the United
States Patent and Trademark Office, as well as marks registered and pending
registration in various jurisdictions around the world.  Company patents and trademarks are carefully
reviewed regularly, and those with no foreseeable commercial value are
abandoned to eliminate costly maintenance fees. 
The Company has ongoing research and development efforts and expects to
seek additional intellectual property protection in the future.
 
In addition to
patents and pending patent applications, the Company uses trade secrets and
proprietary know-how in our products. Any of our know-how or trade secrets not
protected by a patent could be disclosed to, or independently developed by, a
competitor.
 
The Company
believes that its patents, proprietary technology, trade secrets, know-how, and
trademarks provide substantial protection for the Company’s competitive
position and the Company intends to aggressively protect its intellectual
property assets, by litigation or other means, as appropriate.  We have periodically monitored and continue
to monitor the activities of our competitors and other third parties with
respect to their use of intellectual property. In addition, we require our
employees, consultants, outside collaborators, and certain distributors and
suppliers to execute confidentiality and, where appropriate, non-competition
agreements upon commencing employment or other relationships with us.  Nevertheless, there can be no assurances that
the steps taken by the Company in this regard will be adequate to prevent
misappropriation or infringement of its technology or that the Company’s
competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially
equivalent or superior to the Company’s technology.  Effective protection of intellectual property
rights may be limited or unavailable in certain foreign countries.  See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below.
 
Sales and
Marketing
 
The Company’s
products are marketed to corporate and governmental organizations through a
sales force that contacts potential customers and responds to public tenders
and other expressions of interest. This sales force includes Company personnel
based in the United States and abroad, as well as independent representatives
under contracts to sell in foreign countries.
 
Customers
 
The Company has a
customer base consisting of government and commercial clients from both the
United States and abroad. Domestically, the Company’s primary client base is
comprised of agencies of the U.S. Government. Approximately 56%, 55%, and 70%
of the Company’s total sales in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, were
derived from either (i) contracting directly with the U.S. Government, or (ii) contracting
with contractors working directly with the U.S. Government. A significant
number of the Company’s contracts with the U.S. Government provide the U.S.
Government with the standard unilateral right to terminate these contracts for
convenience. As discussed under Item 7 of this Annual Report, during fiscal
2009 two of the Company’s contracts with the U.S. Government were partially
terminated for convenience by the U. S. Government.  These partial terminations did not result in
any material losses to the Company.   The
Company is heavily dependent upon sales to agencies of the U.S. Government and
reductions or delays in procurement of the Company’s systems and services by
these agencies may have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
International
sales, primarily to foreign governments, accounted for approximately 37%, 36%,
and 27% of the Company’s total sales in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007
respectively, and continue to be a high priority for the Company as part of its
long-term growth strategy. International sales entail longer sales cycles and
project financing requirements; however the Company continues to focus on these
sales as a means of broadening its customer base. The Company manages its
overseas risk in a number of ways, including actively increasing the number of
opportunities it is pursuing at any one time and obtaining downpayments and
letters of credit to secure its international receivables. The majority of
international contracts are bid in U.S.
 
6





Table of Contents
 
dollars. For those
contracts that are bid in other currencies, the Company considers the need to
engage in hedging contracts to control foreign exchange risk. There were no
hedging activities in fiscal 2009, 2008, or 2007.
 
In fiscal 2009,
the Company had sales to two major customers, one agency of the U.S. Government
and one international government, which accounted for 18% and 16% of total
sales, respectively.  In fiscal 2008, the
Company had sales to two major customers, both agencies of the U.S. Government,
which accounted for 12% and 10% of total sales. 
In fiscal 2007, the Company had sales to two major customers, both
agencies of the U.S. Government, which accounted for 31% and 15% of total
sales.
 
Competition
 
The Company has
many competitors in the homeland security X-ray detection market, including
several large and well-established manufacturers of security equipment with
financial and other resources greater than those of the Company. Certain X-ray
security system customers select such systems based largely on price. Other
customers, including some agencies of the U.S. Government and certain users in
countries with high levels of concern over security, tend to select systems
based largely on detection capability. 
Many of the Company’s systems offer premium performance and have in some
cases been priced higher than competing systems. The Company believes that its
patented and proprietary technology give it a strong competitive position in
the sale of security systems to customers concerned with performance and
detection. The Company also believes that its strategy of concentrating on
products with unique features, including Z Backscatter and Shaped Energy,
and/or competitive pricing will give it a strong position to increase its sales
of X-ray inspection systems. However, a number of companies have developed
products that compete with the Company’s X-ray inspection products. (See Item
1A.  Risk Factors)
 
ISO 9001
Certification
 
In August 2006,
the Company’s Quality Management System was recertified under the ISO 9001:2000
Standard of the International Organization for Standardization which it has
been registered under since 2003.  ISO
9001 is an internationally recognized quality management and assurance standard.  In qualifying, the Company met or exceeded
the standards for establishing a quality management system for preventing
non-conformity at every level of the product life cycle, from customer order,
through development and production, to installation and support.  The Company believes that demonstrating
continuous quality improvement is vital for building customer satisfaction and
making business processes more efficient in order to increase its competitive
edge.
 
Component
Availability
 
Critical material
and subsystems are procured from both domestic suppliers and global supply
partners.  These supply sources are in
several cases, involving key components, single sources of supply and the
material provided can have extended lead times. 
In response to expanding customer demand in the global security
screening market, the Company has taken steps to mitigate sourcing risks by
working closely with its suppliers to ensure future material and subsystem
availability to support its production plans. In some cases, the Company has
chosen to stock reserve material to ensure future availability. Efforts have
also included identifying and qualifying second source suppliers for critical
material and a number of key subsystems in support of its product lines. The
Company does not expect to experience sustained difficulties in securing
required material and subsystems to support its future business operations.
 
Regulatory Compliance
 
AS&E must
comply with applicable federal regulations under Title 21 CFR Subchapter J -
Radiological Health.  To the Company’s
knowledge, all AS&E cabinet X-ray products comply with all applicable U.S.
Government radiation safety performance standards including 21 CFR 1020.40. To
the Company’s knowledge, all personnel inspection systems of AS&E comply
with the voluntary consensus radiation safety standards adopted by the American
National Standards Institute ANSI N43.17-2002.
 
Research
and Development
 
The Company spent
approximately $18,070,000 of its own funds for research and development during
fiscal 2009, compared to $12,306,000 and $7,184,000 in fiscal 2008 and 2007,
respectively. The fiscal 2009 research and development efforts were focused on
new product development, the development of new applications, and design
modifications and enhancements to existing products.
 
In addition, the
Company conducted government-sponsored research primarily focused on advances
in X-ray systems, image analysis and integrated system development for niche
security inspection problems. The Company recognized revenues of $12,524,000,
$13,978,000, and $6,597,000 in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively for
these efforts. Many of the Company’s government sponsored research and
development contracts provide for a fixed fee or a reimbursement of allowable
costs plus a
 
7





Table of Contents
 
fixed fee. The Company’s
contracts in these areas are obtained by submitting research and development
proposals to various organizations, sometimes in response to requests for such
proposals.
 
Personnel
 
As of March 31,
2009 the Company had 375 employees as compared to 346 employees at March 31,
2008.   It is the Company’s policy to
have employees sign a non-compete and non-disclosure agreement as a condition
of employment. None of the Company’s employees are represented by labor unions.
 
Sales
Backlog
 
The Company’s firm
(signed contracts) sales backlog was $155,349,000, $99,606,000, and
$105,634,000 at March 31, 2009, March 31, 2008, and March 31,
2007, respectively.
 
A significant
number of the Company’s contracts with the U.S. Government contain clauses
permitting the government to terminate the contract for convenience upon
certain terms and conditions, including partial payment to the Company for work
performed. This right was exercised in fiscal 2009 by two U.S. Government
agencies who were parties to the contract. 
Total contracts with U.S Government agencies and subcontractors in the
backlog were $71,545,000, $42,640,000, and $58,833,000, at March 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively. It is estimated that approximately 82% of the 2009
backlog will be converted within the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010.
 
Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic
Operations and Export Sales
 
Most export sales
are transacted in U.S. dollars, and most are either secured by irrevocable
letters of credit or paid in advance. The following table shows the breakdown
of net sales and contract revenues to international and domestic customers
based upon the customer’s country of domicile and the major regions of
international activity. All assets are maintained within the United States with
the exception of inventory depots, inventory in transit or awaiting
installation and cash accounts maintained at foreign locations (approximately
5.3% of the Company’s assets).
 
Net Sales and Contract Revenues
 



 


 


Fiscal Year


 




(Dollars in thousands)


 


2009


 


2008


 


2007


 




Domestic


 


$


138,240


 


63


%


$


107,021


 


64


%


$


111,335


 


73


%




International


 


80,127


 


37


%


59,712


 


36


%


41,851


 


27


%




Net Sales and Contract Revenues


 


$


218,367


 


100


%


$


166,733


 


100


%


$


153,186


 


100


%




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Percent of International Revenue by Major
  Region:


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




Middle East & Africa


 


 


 


85


%


 


 


70


%


 


 


66


%




Pacific Rim


 


 


 


7


%


 


 


14


%


 


 


20


%




Europe


 


 


 


8


%


 


 


14


%


 


 


14


%




All Other


 


 


 


—


%


 


 


2


%


 


 


—


%



 
Available Information
 
The Company’s
principal executive offices are located at 829 Middlesex Turnpike, Billerica,
MA 01821; telephone number 978-262-8700; corporate website www.as-e.com. We
make available, free of charge through our website, our annual Form 10-K,
current reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and amendments to these
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable. In addition, our
reports, proxy and information statements and other information filed with the
SEC are available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580,
Washington, DC 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330), and are also available from the SEC’s
website at www.sec.gov.
 
ITEM
1A.  RISK FACTORS
 
You should
carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports we file with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial
condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.
 
The
Company’s reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of its
revenues could harm its business and prospects. 
A number of contracts held by those customers may be terminated at the
customer’s discretion.
 
8





Table
of Contents
 
The Company’s
business is dependent on sales to a small number of customers, which include
agencies of the United States government. During fiscal 2009, two customers
accounted for 34% of the Company’s total revenues.   During fiscal 2008, two customers accounted
for 22% of the Company’s total revenues and during fiscal 2007, two customers
accounted for 46% of the Company’s total revenues. The Company can provide no
assurance that its existing customers will increase or maintain their level of
demand for the Company’s products.
 
A significant
number of the Company’s government contracts may be terminated at the
government’s discretion. During fiscal 2009, two of the Company’s contracts
with the U.S. Government were partially terminated for convenience by the U.S.
Government.  Although these partial
terminations did not result in material losses to the Company, future contract
terminations could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations.  The termination of the Company’s relationship
with one or more of its significant customers or the reduction or delay of
orders of its systems by these customers would substantially reduce the Company’s
revenues, and its business and prospects may be harmed.
 
The
Company’s results of operations are affected by the overall economy and
governmental spending.
 
The Company’s
results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the conditions in
the global economy and the impact of those conditions on U.S. and foreign
government spending. The global economic recession has caused extreme
volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets, including a
significant reduction in the availability of capital resources to many business
enterprises. U.S. and foreign economies have experienced and continue to
experience significant declines in employment, spending, household wealth and
lending.  Businesses have faced and may
continue to face weakened demand for their products and services, difficulty
obtaining access to financing, increased funding costs, and barriers to
expanding operations. U.S. and foreign government spending for programs
involving products such as the Company’s may be reduced or delayed, now or in
the future, due to reduced tax revenues and other spending imperatives,
including financial institution support and economic stimulus programs.  Economic and market conditions may continue
to worsen and could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations.
 
The
Company’s business is dependent upon governmental policies and appropriations.
 
The Company’s largest
customers are government agencies and demand for its products is dependent upon
national priorities and governmental initiatives. These priorities and
initiatives are subject to change from time to time in response to the economic
and political environment.   The Company
is also exposed to budget approval and appropriation decisions and processes
which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and
macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. While the overall level
of U.S. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, we
can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow, or not be reduced.
Significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for
our size and structure. In addition, changes in government priorities and
requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our
programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial
condition.
 
The
Company’s lengthy sales cycle requires it to incur significant expenses with no
assurance that it will generate revenue or recover such expenses.
 
A substantial
portion of the Company’s sales depends upon the decision of governmental
agencies to upgrade or expand security at border crossing inspection sites,
existing airports, seaports and other facilities. Accordingly, a portion of the
Company’s product sales is subject to delays associated with the lengthy
approval processes that often accompany such capital expenditures. During these
approval periods, the Company expends significant financial and managerial
resources in anticipation of future orders that may not occur. If the Company fails
to receive an order after expending these resources, it may be unable to
generate sufficient revenue to recover the costs incurred and its business and
prospects may be harmed.
 
The
Company conducts its business worldwide, which exposes it to a number of
difficulties in coordinating its international activities and dealing with
multiple regulatory environments.
 
The Company’s
revenues to international customers, including foreign governments, accounted
for approximately 37%, 36% and 27% of its net revenues for the fiscal years
ended March 31, 2009, March 31, 2008 
and March 31, 2007, respectively, and a significant number of
domestic customer orders require shipments to, and services provided in,
overseas locations. In addition, the Company transacts business internationally
with a number of its key suppliers. As a result of the Company’s worldwide
business operations, it is subject to various risks, including:
 
· international regulatory requirements and policy
changes;
 
· lengthy sales cycles;
 
· longer payment cycles by foreign customers;
 
9





Table
of Contents
 
· difficulties in inventory management, accounts
receivable collection and the management of distributors or representatives;
 
· difficulties in staffing and managing foreign
operations;
 
· geopolitical instability;
 
· political and economic changes and disruptions;
 
· favoritism towards local suppliers;
 
· governmental currency controls;
 
· interruption to transportation flow for delivery of
parts to us and finished goods to our customers;
 
· currency exchange rate fluctuations; and
 
· tariff regulations.
 
Although the
Company’s international sales have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars,
changes in currency exchange rates that increase the relative value of the U.S.
dollar may make it more difficult for the Company to compete with foreign
manufacturers on price or otherwise have a material adverse effect on its sales
and operating results.
 
Changes
in governmental regulations may reduce demand for the Company’s products or
increase its expenses.
 
The Company
competes in markets in which the Company or its customers must comply with
federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as health and safety
regulations. The Company develops, configures and markets its products to meet
its customers’ needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in
these regulations could reduce demand for the Company’s products or increase
its costs to comply with new regulations, both of which may adversely affect
its operating results.
 
The
Company’s reliance on a limited number of suppliers for some key components for
its products could harm its business and prospects.
 
The Company relies
on a number of suppliers to provide material and subsystems for our products.
The Company is reliant on a limited number of key international supply partners
for core technology products, including subsystems with complex sub-tier supply
chains.  In addition, certain material or
subsystems used in our products may be available from a sole source or limited
number of suppliers, increasing the risk of supply disruption. Although our
products may be able to be redesigned to avoid using any sole source supplier,
it would be expensive and time consuming to make such a change. If the Company
changes any of its suppliers, a qualification process would need to be
completed and the affected product may require redesign, creating potential
delays in product shipments.
 
Some of our
suppliers may allocate material due to market demand for the products they
produce or market constraints such as the global availability of raw materials.
We have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and there can be
no assurance that our suppliers will continue to meet our requirements. Many of
our competitors are much larger and may be able to obtain priority allocations
from these shared suppliers, thereby limiting or making our sources of supply
unreliable for these components. There is also the possibility that a key
single source supplier may be acquired by or form a strategic alignment with a
competitor, which could impact our ability to secure required materials.  If our supply of materials is disrupted, we
cannot ensure that we would be able to find another supplier on a timely basis.
 
The Company
depends on its subcontractors and suppliers to deliver material that is in full
compliance with critical quality and specification requirements. Quality issues
may affect the reliability and performance of our products, customer
confidence, and adversely impact financial performance. Any difficulty in
obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of conforming material could result in
delays or reductions in product shipments that could materially and adversely
affect our business, financial condition and consolidated results of
operations. This in turn could also damage our reputation in the market and
cause us to lose market share. The Company does not expect to experience
sustained difficulties in securing required material and subsystems to support
forward business operations.
 
10





Table
of Contents
 
Fluctuations
in the Company’s operating results and unanticipated contract terminations may
cause its stock price to fluctuate.
 
Given the nature
of the markets in which the Company participates, and given the right of key
customers to terminate contracts at their discretion, it cannot reliably
predict future revenue and profitability. A high proportion of the Company’s
costs are fixed, due in part to its significant sales, research and
development, and manufacturing costs. As a result of its fixed costs, even
small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect the Company’s
operating results and stock price at any time. Factors that may affect the
Company’s quarterly operating results and the market price of its common stock
include:
 
· demand for and market acceptance of its X-ray
inspection systems;
 
· lengthy sales cycles and the effect of large orders;
 
· termination of contracts and contractual awards at
the customer’s convenience;
 
· changes in political agendas or national priorities;
 
· adverse changes in the level of economic activity in
regions in which the Company does business;
 
· political unrest in the regions where the Company
transacts business;
 
· adverse changes in industries on which the Company is
particularly dependent;
 
· competitive pressures resulting in lower selling
prices for its products;
 
· delays or problems in the introduction of new
products;
 
· the Company’s competitors’ announcement or
introduction of new products, services or technological innovations;
 
· variations in the Company’s product mix;
 
· the timing and amount of the Company’s expenditures
in anticipation of future sales;
 
· increased costs of raw materials or supplies; and
 
· changes in the volume or timing of product orders.
 
The
Company could incur substantial costs as a result of product liability claims
and adverse publicity if its X-ray inspection systems fail to detect bombs,
explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety.
 
If the Company’s
X-ray inspection systems fail to detect the presence of bombs, explosives,
weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety, the Company could be
subject to product liability claims and negative publicity, which could result
in increased costs, reduced sales, and a decline in the market price of the
Company’s common stock. There are many factors beyond the Company’s control
that could result in the failure of its products to detect the presence of
bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety.
Examples of these factors include operator error or misuse of or malfunction of
its equipment. The failure of the Company’s systems to detect the presence of
these dangerous materials may lead to personal injury, loss of life, and
extensive property damage and may result in potential claims against the
Company.
 
The
Company’s insurance may be insufficient to protect it from product liability
claims.
 
The Company’s
product liability and umbrella liability insurance may be insufficient to
protect it from product liability claims. Moreover, there is a risk that
product liability insurance will not continue to be available to the Company at
a reasonable cost, if at all. If liability claims exceed the Company’s current
or available insurance coverage, its business and prospects may be harmed.
Regardless of the adequacy of the Company’s product liability insurance
protection, any significant claim may have an adverse affect on its industry
and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for its
products and reduced revenues.
 
The
Company may not be able to fund its research and development activities.
 
The Company
generates funds for its research and development activities from operations,
private sources and the government. The Company may be unable to generate the
funds necessary to support its research and development activities if it does
not generate sufficient funds from operations, other potential private sources,
or the government. The Company may not successfully compete with other
companies and research institutions for government funding and funding from
other private sources. Additionally, government-funding priorities are subject
to frequent changes. For example, in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, the Company
recorded $12,524,000, $13,978,000 and $6,597,000, respectively, for
government-sponsored research and
 
11





Table
of Contents
 
development. There is no
guarantee that the Company will receive funds for government-sponsored research
in the future. If the Company is unable to fund its research and development
activities through its operations or from outside sources, the Company may be
unable to continue to innovate or bring its innovations to market on a timely
or cost effective basis, or its innovations may be surpassed by other
competitors or new technologies.
 
The
Company’s success depends on new product development.
 
The Company’s
continuing research and development program is designed to develop new products
and to enhance and improve its current products. The Company plans to expend
significant resources on the development of its new products. The successful
development of its products and product enhancements is subject to numerous
risks, both known and unknown, including:
 
· unanticipated delays;
 
· access to capital;
 
· budget overruns;
 
· technical problems; and
 
· other difficulties that could result in the
abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization
of new products and product enhancements, including for example, changes
requested or required by governmental and regulatory agencies.
 
Given the
uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction of X-ray
inspection systems, the Company cannot assure that its product development
efforts will be successful on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. The
Company’s failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely
basis or within budget would harm its business and prospects.
 
The Company’s success
depends upon its ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer
requirements.
 
The market for the Company’s products has been characterized by rapid
technological changes, frequent product introductions and evolving industry
standards and customer requirements. The Company believes that these trends
will continue into the foreseeable future. The Company’s success will depend,
in part, upon its ability to enhance its existing products, successfully
develop new products that meet changing customer and regulatory requirements
and gain market acceptance. If the Company fails to do so, its products may be
rendered obsolete or noncompetitive by new industry standards or changing
technology, in which case its revenue and operating results would suffer. In
developing any new product, the Company may be required to make a substantial
investment before it can determine the commercial viability of the new product.
If the Company fails to accurately foresee its customers’ needs and future
activities, it may invest heavily in research and development of products that
do not lead to significant revenue.
 
The
Company may not be able to compete successfully.
 
A number of companies have developed products that compete with the
Company’s X-ray inspection products. Many of the Company’s competitors are
larger and have greater financial resources than it does. Some of its
competitors have more extensive research, marketing and manufacturing
capabilities and greater technical and personnel resources than the Company
does, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in
order to compete in an evolving industry. The Company’s failure to compete
successfully could decrease demand for its products or make its products
obsolete.
 
In the inspection systems market, competition is based primarily on the
following factors:
 
·
product performance, functionality and quality;
 
·
price;
 
·
the overall cost of ownership of the system;
 
·
prior customer relationships;
 
·
technological capabilities of the product;
 
·
certification by government authorities;
 
12





Table
of Contents
 
·
local market presence; and
 
·
breadth of the sales and service organization.
 
To remain competitive, the Company must develop new products and
periodically enhance its existing products in a timely manner. The Company
anticipates that it may have to adjust the prices of some of its products to
stay competitive. In addition, new competitors may emerge, and entire product
lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the
value of these product lines.
 
The Company’s business could
be harmed if it is unable to protect its intellectual property.
 
The Company relies primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents,
copyrights, trademarks and confidentiality procedures to protect its
technology. Despite its precautions, the steps the Company has taken to protect
its technology may be inadequate. Existing trade secret, patent, trademark and
copyright laws offer only limited protection. The Company’s patents could be
invalidated or circumvented.  In
addition, others may develop substantially equivalent or superseding
proprietary technology, or competitors may offer equivalent products in
competition with the Company’s products, thereby substantially reducing the
value of the Company’s proprietary rights. The laws of some foreign countries
in which the Company’s products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold
may not protect its products or intellectual property rights to the same extent
as do the laws of the United States. This may make the possibility of piracy of
the Company’s technology and products more likely. The Company cannot assure
that the steps it has taken to protect its intellectual property will be
adequate to prevent misappropriation of its technology. The Company’s inability
to protect its intellectual property could have a negative impact on its
operations and financial results.
 
The
Company’s business may be materially and adversely affected by infringement
claims initiated by the Company or its competitors.
 
Initiating or
defending against the enforcement of the Company’s intellectual property rights
may result in significant, protracted, and costly litigation. The Company has
previously been and continues to be involved in various litigations involving
its intellectual property and has been successful in protecting such interests
to date. The Company expects intellectual property disputes to be an ordinary
part of its business for the foreseeable future. The Company may initiate
claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of its intellectual
property rights, or to establish the validity of its property rights. There can
be no assurance that the Company will prevail in any such action. Litigation by
or against the Company could result in significant expense and divert the
efforts of technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation
results in a favorable outcome for the Company. In the event of an adverse
result in any such litigation, the Company could be required to pay substantial
damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products, expend significant
resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain
processes, or obtain licenses for the infringing technology. If a license were
required, the Company cannot assure that it would be able to obtain one on
commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The Company cannot assure that it
will be successful in developing non-infringing technology or that the cost or
time required to develop such technology will be reasonable.
 
The
Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain qualified
management professionals.
 
The Company’s
future success depends in large measure upon the continued contributions of its
senior management team and other key personnel. 
We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain key
personnel or executive management in sufficient numbers, with the requisite
skills or on acceptable terms necessary or advisable to support our continued
growth.  If we lose professionals or are
unable to attract new talent, we will not be able to maintain our position in
the market or grow our business.
 
Existing
external financing may not be available in the future.
 
The Company may
require additional capital to finance continuing operations. The Company cannot
assure that operations will continue to be profitable, that it will generate
levels of revenues and cash flows sufficient to fund operations, or, if
necessary, that the Company will be able to obtain additional financing on
satisfactory terms, if at all. Any existing financing arrangements may not be
available or sufficient to meet the Company’s cash needs or may not be
available in the future, or, if available, at a cost that the Company believes
is reasonable.
 
Future
sales of the Company’s common stock by existing stockholders could depress the
market price of the Company’s common stock.
 
Substantially all
of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable without
restriction or further registration. Affiliates must sell all shares they own
in compliance with the volume and other requirements of Rule 144.
 
13





Table
of Contents
 
Nevertheless, sales of
substantial amounts of common stock by the Company’s stockholders, or even the
potential for such sales, may cause the market price of the Company’s common
stock to decline and could impair the Company’s ability to raise capital
through the sale of the Company’s equity securities.
 
The
volatility of the Company’s stock price could adversely affect an investment in
the Company’s common stock.
 
The market price
of the Company’s common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly
volatile. The Company believes that a variety of factors could cause the price
of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including:
 
·
announcements of developments related to the Company’s business;
 
· quarterly fluctuations in the Company’s actual or
anticipated operating results and order levels;
 
· general conditions in the worldwide economy;
 
· announcements of technological innovations;
 
· new products or product enhancements by the Company
or its competitors;
 
· developments in patents or other intellectual
property rights and litigation; and
 
· developments in the Company’s relationships with its
customers and suppliers.
 
In addition, in
recent years the stock market in general, and the markets for shares of small
capitalization and “high-tech” companies in particular, have experienced
extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating
performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could
adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock.
 
Provisions
in the Company’s articles of organization and the Company’s shareholder rights
plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for the Company’s
business or common stock, and limit the price that investors might be willing
to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock.
 
Provisions in the
Company’s articles of organization and the Company’s shareholder rights plan
may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control. These
provisions could limit the price that acquirers might be willing to pay in the
future for shares of the Company’s common stock. Specifically, the Company’s
articles of organization authorize its Board of Directors to issue up to
100,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, to fix certain rights,
preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or imposed upon any wholly
unissued shares of preferred stock, to fix the number of shares constituting
any such series, and to fix the designation of any such series, without further
vote or action by its shareholders. The terms of any series of preferred stock,
which may include priority claims to assets and dividends and special voting
rights, could adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock and
thereby reduce the value of the Company’s common stock. The Company has no
present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. The Company has in place a
shareholder rights plan, which was renewed in April of 2008, under which
its stockholders are entitled to purchase shares of its preferred stock under
certain circumstances. These circumstances include the purchase of 15% or more
of the outstanding shares of common stock by a person or group, or the
announcement of a tender or exchange offer to acquire 15% or more of the
outstanding common stock. The shareholder rights plan may have the effect of
impeding or preventing certain types of transactions involving a change in
control of the Company that could be beneficial to the stockholders.
 
