.We report our NIKE Brand operations based on our internal geographic organization. Each NIKE Brand geography operates predominantly in one industry: the design, development, marketing and selling of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services. For fiscal 2017, our reportable operating segments for the NIKE Brand are: North America, Western Europe, Central & Eastern Europe, Greater China, Japan and Emerging Markets. In June 2017, we announced a new company alignment designed to allow NIKE to better serve the consumer personally, at scale. As a result of this organizational realignment, beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company's reportable operating segments for the NIKE Brand will be: North America; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Greater China; and Asia Pacific and Latin America. Our NIKE Brand Direct to Consumer operations are, and will continue to be, managed within each geographic operating segment.Converse is, and will continue to be, a reportable segment and operates in one industry: the design, marketing, licensing and selling of casual sneakers, apparel and accessories. Converse Direct to Consumer operations, including digital commerce, are reported within the Converse operating segment results.United States MarketFor fiscal 2017, NIKE Brand and Converse sales in the United States accounted for approximately 46% of total revenues, compared to 47% and 46% for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively. We sell our NIKE Brand, Jordan Brand, Hurley and Converse products to thousands of retail accounts in the United States, including a mix of footwear stores, sporting goods stores, athletic specialty stores, department stores, skate, tennis and golf shops and other retail accounts. In the United States, we utilize NIKE sales offices to solicit such sales. During fiscal 2017, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 23% of sales in the United States.Our Direct to Consumer operations sell NIKE Brand, Jordan Brand, Hurley and Converse products to consumers through our digital commerce website, www.nike.com and through mobile applications. In addition, our Direct to Consumer operations sell through the following number of retail stores in the United States:U.S. Retail StoresNumberNIKE Brand factory stores209NIKE Brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores)34Converse stores (including factory stores)112Hurley stores (including factory and employee stores)29TOTAL384In the United States, NIKE has six significant distribution centers located in Memphis, Tennessee, two of which are owned and four of which are leased. NIKE Brand apparel and equipment products are also shipped from our leased Foothill Ranch, California distribution center. Converse and Hurley products are shipped primarily from leased facilities in Ontario, California, as well as from Memphis, Tennessee. Smaller leased distribution facilities are located in various parts of the United States.We also operate a futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set time period at a fixed price. For fiscal 2017, orders under the futures program represented 83% of our U.S. wholesale footwear revenues, compared to 84% for fiscal 2016 and 87% for fiscal 2015. For fiscal 2017, futures orders represented 66% of our U.S. wholesale apparel revenues, compared to 66% for fiscal 2016 and 67% for fiscal 2015.International MarketsFor fiscal 2017, non-U.S. NIKE Brand and Converse sales accounted for 54% of total revenues, compared to 53% and 54% for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, respectively. We sell our products to retail accounts, through our own Direct to Consumer operations and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives around the world. We sell to thousands of retail accounts and ship products from 60 distribution centers outside of the United States. In many countries and regions, including Canada, Asia, Europe and some Latin American countries, we have a futures ordering program for retailers similar to the United States futures ordering program described above. During fiscal 2017, NIKE’s three largest customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 12% of total non-U.S. sales.2Table of ContentsIn addition to NIKE and Converse owned digital commerce websites in over 45 countries, our Direct to Consumer business operates the following number of retail stores outside the United States:Non-U.S. Retail StoresNumberNIKE Brand factory stores642NIKE Brand in-line stores (including employee-only stores)71Converse stores (including factory stores)45TOTAL758International branch offices and subsidiaries of NIKE are located in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Macau, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Uruguay and Vietnam.Significant CustomerNo customer accounted for 10% or more of our worldwide net revenues during fiscal 2017.OrdersFutures orders for NIKE Brand footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from June through November 2017 were $14.7 billion compared to $15.0 billion for the same period last year. NIKE Brand futures orders include (1) orders from external wholesale customers and (2) internal orders from our DTC in-line stores and digital commerce operations which are reflected at prices that are comparable to prices charged to external wholesale customers. The U.S. Dollar futures orders amount is calculated based upon our internal forecast of the actual currency exchange rates under which our revenues will be translated during this period. Reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for this period and have become less correlated due to our evolving business model. This is due to year-over-year changes in shipment timing, changes in the mix of orders between futures and orders with shorter lead times, and because the fulfillment of certain orders may fall outside of the schedule noted above. In addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations, discounts and returns can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. A portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including sales with short lead times, closeout NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, all sales of NIKE Brand equipment, the difference between retail sales and internal orders from our DTC in-line stores and digital commerce operations, and sales from Converse, NIKE Golf and Hurley.Product Research, Design and DevelopmentWe believe our research, design and development efforts are key factors in our success. Technical innovation in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment receive continued emphasis as we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort while reducing waste.In addition to our own staff of specialists in the areas of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, we also utilize research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts who consult with us and review designs, materials, concepts for product and manufacturing process improvements and compliance with product safety regulations around the world. Employee athletes, athletes engaged under sports marketing contracts and other athletes wear-test and evaluate products during the design and development process.As we continue to develop new technologies, we are simultaneously focused on the design of innovative products incorporating such technologies throughout our product categories. Using market intelligence and research, our various design teams identify opportunities to leverage new technologies in existing categories responding to consumer preferences. The proliferation of NIKE Air, Lunar, Zoom, Free, Flywire, Dri-Fit, Flyknit, Flyweave, ZoomX, React and NIKE+ technologies throughout our Running, NIKE Basketball, the Jordan Brand, Football (Soccer), Men's Training, Women's Training and Sportswear categories, among others, typifies our dedication to designing innovative products.ManufacturingWe are supplied by approximately 127 footwear factories located in 15 countries. The largest single footwear factory accounted for approximately 8% of total fiscal 2017 NIKE Brand footwear production. Virtually all of our footwear is manufactured outside of the United States by independent contract manufacturers who often operate multiple factories. For fiscal 2017, contract factories in Vietnam, China and Indonesia manufactured approximately 46%, 27% and 21% of total NIKE Brand footwear, respectively. We also have manufacturing agreements with independent contract manufacturers in Argentina, India, Brazil, Mexico and Italy to manufacture footwear for sale primarily within those countries. For fiscal 2017, five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of footwear production and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of NIKE Brand footwear production.We are supplied by approximately 363 apparel factories located in 37 countries. The largest single apparel factory accounted for approximately 13% of total fiscal 2017 NIKE Brand apparel production. Virtually all of our apparel is manufactured outside of the United States by independent contract manufacturers which often operate multiple factories. For fiscal 2017, contract factories in China, Vietnam and Thailand produced approximately 26%, 16% and 10% of total NIKE Brand apparel, respectively. For fiscal 2017, one apparel contract manufacturer accounted for more than 10% of apparel production, and the top five contract manufacturers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 43% of NIKE Brand apparel production.3Table of ContentsThe principal materials used in our footwear products are natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and canvas, as well as polyurethane films used to make NIKE Air-Sole cushioning components. During fiscal 2017, Air Manufacturing Innovation, with facilities near Beaverton, Oregon and in St. Charles, Missouri, as well as independent contractors in China and Vietnam, were our suppliers of the Air-Sole cushioning components used in footwear. The principal materials used in our apparel products are natural and synthetic fabrics and threads (both virgin and recycled); specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat and repel rain and/or snow; and plastic and metal hardware. NIKE’s independent contractors and suppliers buy raw materials for the manufacturing of our footwear, apparel and equipment products. Most raw materials are available and purchased by those independent contractors and suppliers in the countries where manufacturing takes place. NIKE's independent contract manufacturers and suppliers have thus far experienced little difficulty in satisfying raw material requirements for the production of our products.Since 1972, Sojitz Corporation of America (“Sojitz America”), a large Japanese trading company and the sole owner of our redeemable preferred stock, has performed significant import-export financing services for us. During fiscal 2017, Sojitz America provided financing and purchasing services for NIKE Brand products sold in certain NIKE markets including Argentina, Brazil, Canada, India, South Africa, Thailand and Uruguay, excluding products produced and sold in the same country. Approximately 6% of NIKE Brand sales occurred in those countries. Any failure of Sojitz America to provide these services or any failure of Sojitz America’s banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in those markets. Such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability. However, we believe that any such disruption would be short-term in duration due to the ready availability of alternative sources of financing at competitive rates. Our current agreements with Sojitz America expire on May 31, 2018 and contain a provision allowing us to extend the agreements to May 31, 2019.International Operations and TradeOur international operations and sources of supply are subject to the usual risks of doing business abroad, such as possible increases in import duties, anti-dumping measures, quotas, safeguard measures, trade restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and, in certain parts of the world, political instability and terrorism. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risk, but cannot predict the likelihood of such material effects occurring in the future.In recent years, uncertain global and regional economic and political conditions have affected international trade and increased protectionist actions around the world. These trends are affecting many global manufacturing and service sectors, and the footwear and apparel industries, as a whole, are not immune. Companies in our industry are facing trade protectionism in many different regions, and in nearly all cases we are working together with industry groups to address trade issues and reduce the impact to the industry, while observing applicable competition laws. Notwithstanding our efforts, protectionist measures have resulted in increases in the cost of our products, and additional measures, if implemented, could adversely affect sales and/or profitability for NIKE as well as the imported footwear and apparel industry as a whole.We monitor protectionist trends and developments throughout the world that may materially impact our industry, and we engage in administrative and judicial processes to mitigate trade restrictions. We are actively monitoring actions that may result in additional anti-dumping measures and could affect our industry. We are also monitoring for and advocating against other impediments that may limit or delay customs clearance for imports of footwear, apparel and equipment. Current U.S. policy proposals, including potential tariffs or penalties on imported goods, if enacted, may negatively affect U.S. corporations with production activities outside the U.S., including NIKE. There have also been discussions and commentary regarding potential changes to U.S. trade policies. If any of these reforms are implemented, it may become necessary for us to change the way we conduct business which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, with respect to trade restrictions targeting China, which represents an important sourcing country and consumer market for us, we are working with a broad coalition of global businesses and trade associations representing a wide variety of sectors to help ensure that any legislation enacted and implemented (i) addresses legitimate and core concerns, (ii) is consistent with international trade rules and (iii) reflects and considers China's domestic economy and the important role it has in the global economic community.Where trade protection measures are implemented, we believe that we have the ability to develop, over a period of time, adequate alternative sources of supply for the products obtained from our present suppliers. If events prevented us from acquiring products from our suppliers in a particular country, our operations could be temporarily disrupted and we could experience an adverse financial impact. However, we believe we could abate any such disruption, and that much of the adverse impact on supply would, therefore, be of a short-term nature, although alternate sources of supply might not be as cost-effective and could have an ongoing adverse impact on profitability.NIKE advocates for trade liberalization for footwear and apparel in a number of regional and bilateral free trade agreements.CompetitionThe athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. We compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment, including adidas, ASICS, Li Ning, lululemon athletica, Puma, Under Armour and V.F. Corporation, among others. The intense competition and the rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations.NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. Important aspects of competition in this industry are:•Product attributes such as quality; performance and reliability; new product innovation and development and consumer price/value.•Consumer connection and affinity for brands and products, developed through marketing and promotion; social media interaction; customer support and service; identification with prominent and influential athletes, public figures, coaches, teams, colleges and sports leagues who endorse our brands and use our products and active engagement through sponsored sporting events and clinics. •Effective sourcing and distribution of products, with attractive merchandising and presentation at retail, both in-store and online.We believe that we are competitive in all of these areas.4Table of ContentsTrademarks and PatentsWe believe that our intellectual property rights are important to our brand, our success, and our competitive position. We pursue available protections of these rights and vigorously protect them against third-party theft and infringement.We utilize trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying our brands and the Company, and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our NIKE and Swoosh trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in almost 170 jurisdictions worldwide. In addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. We own common law rights in the trade dress of several significant shoe designs and elements. For certain trade dress, we have sought and obtained trademark registrations.We have copyright protection in our design, graphics and other original works. In some instances, we also obtain registered copyrights.We own patents and have a patent license, facilitating our use of “Air” technologies. We file for, own and maintain many U.S. and foreign utility patents, as well as many U.S. and foreign design patents protecting components, technologies, manufacturing techniques, features and industrial design used in various athletic and leisure footwear and apparel, athletic equipment and digital devices. These patents expire at various times.We believe our success depends upon our capabilities in areas such as design, research and development, production and marketing rather than exclusively upon our patent and trade secret positions. However, we have followed a policy of filing patent applications for the United States and select foreign countries on inventions, designs and improvements that we deem valuable. We also continue to vigorously protect our trademarks and patents against third-party infringement.EmployeesAs of May 31, 2017, we had approximately 74,400 employees worldwide, including retail and part-time employees. Management considers its relationship with employees to be excellent. None of our employees are represented by a union, except for certain employees in the Emerging Markets geography, where local law requires those employees to be represented by a trade union. Also, in some countries outside of the United States, local laws require employee representation by works councils (which may be entitled to information and consultation on certain Company decisions) or by organizations similar to a union. In certain European countries, we are required by local law to enter into and/or comply with industry-wide or national collective bargaining agreements. NIKE has never experienced a material interruption of operations due to labor disagreements.Executive Officers of the RegistrantThe executive officers of NIKE, Inc. as of July 20, 2017 are as follows:Mark G. Parker, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer — Mr. Parker, 61, was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in January 2006 and named Chairman of the Board in June 2016. He has been employed by NIKE since 1979 with primary responsibilities in product research, design and development, marketing and brand management. Mr. Parker was appointed divisional Vice President in charge of product development in 1987, corporate Vice President in 1989, General Manager in 1993, Vice President of Global Footwear in 1998 and President of the NIKE Brand in 2001.Chris L. Abston, Vice President and Corporate Controller — Mr. Abston, 54, joined NIKE in 2015 from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., where he served as Vice President, Global Controls and Governance since February 2015. Prior to that he was Vice President and Controller of Walmart International from February 2013 to January 2015, responsible for the oversight of international accounting and reporting, and Vice President and Assistant Controller of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. from May 2011 to January 2013. Before joining Wal-Mart, Mr. Abston spent 25 years in public accounting with Ernst & Young LLP, most recently leading its Strategic Growth Markets practice as a Partner in the Dallas office.David J. Ayre, Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources — Mr. Ayre, 57, joined NIKE as Vice President, Global Human Resources in 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, he held a number of senior human resource positions with PepsiCo, Inc. since 1990, most recently as head of Talent and Performance Rewards. Andrew Campion, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer — Mr. Campion, 45, joined NIKE in 2007 as Vice President of Global Planning and Development, leading strategic and financial planning. He was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the NIKE Brand in 2010, responsible for leading all aspects of financial management for the Company's flagship brand. In 2014, he was appointed Senior Vice President, Strategy, Finance and Investor Relations in addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer of NIKE Brand. Mr. Campion assumed the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2015. Prior to joining NIKE, he held leadership roles in strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, financial planning and analysis, operations and planning, investor relations and tax at The Walt Disney Company from 1996 to 2007.Trevor A. Edwards, President, NIKE Brand — Mr. Edwards, 54, joined NIKE in 1992. He was appointed Marketing Manager, Strategic Accounts for Foot Locker in 1993, Director of Marketing for the Americas in 1995, Director of Marketing for Europe in 1997, Vice President, Marketing for Europe, Middle East and Africa in 1999 and Vice President, U.S. Brand Marketing in 2000. Mr. Edwards was appointed corporate Vice President, Global Brand Management in 2002, Vice President, Global Brand and Category Management in 2006 and President, NIKE Brand in 2013. Prior to NIKE, Mr. Edwards was with the Colgate-Palmolive Company.Hilary K. Krane, Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel — Ms. Krane, 53, joined NIKE as Vice President and General Counsel in April 2010. In 2011, her responsibilities expanded and she became Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Affairs. Ms. Krane was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel in 2013. Prior to joining NIKE, Ms. Krane was General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Corporate Affairs at Levi Strauss & Co. from 2006 to 2010. From 1996 to 2006, she was a Partner and Assistant General Counsel at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.5Table of ContentsJohn F. Slusher, Executive Vice President, Global Sports Marketing — Mr. Slusher, 48, has been employed by NIKE since 1998 with primary responsibilities in global sports marketing. Mr. Slusher was appointed Director of Sports Marketing for Asia Pacific and Americas in 2006, divisional Vice President of Asia Pacific & Americas Sports Marketing in September 2007 and Vice President, Global Sports Marketing in November 2007. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Slusher was an attorney at the law firm of O’Melveny & Myers from 1995 to 1998.Eric D. Sprunk, Chief Operating Officer — Mr. Sprunk, 53, joined NIKE in 1993. He was appointed Finance Director and General Manager of the Americas in 1994, Finance Director for NIKE Europe in 1995, Regional General Manager of NIKE Europe Footwear in 1998 and Vice President & General Manager of the Americas in 2000. Mr. Sprunk was appointed Vice President of Global Footwear in 2001, Vice President of Merchandising and Product in 2009 and Chief Operating Officer in 2013. Prior to joining NIKE, Mr. Sprunk was a certified public accountant with Price Waterhouse from 1987 to 1993.As recently announced by the Company, Mr. Ayre will retire at the end of the calendar year. Succeeding Mr. Ayre as Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources, will be Monique Matheson. Ms. Matheson, 50, has been employed by NIKE since 1998, with primary responsibilities in the human resources function and most recently serving as Vice President, Chief Talent and Diversity Officer. 6Table of ContentsITEM 1A. Risk FactorsSpecial Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Analyst ReportsCertain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to NIKE’s business plans, objectives and expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by NIKE or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the SEC, press releases, conferences or otherwise, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “project,” “will be,” “will continue,” “will likely result” or words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by NIKE with the SEC, including reports filed on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for NIKE products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for NIKE products and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating and maintaining NIKE’s increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; consumer data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of futures and orders with shorter lead times, and discounts, order cancellations and returns; the ability of NIKE to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of NIKE’s products; increases in the cost of materials, labor and energy used to manufacture products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in NIKE’s debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability and terrorism; proposed changes to U.S. tax laws or policy, tariff and import/export regulations; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change and natural disasters; litigation, regulatory proceedings and other claims asserted against NIKE; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the effects of NIKE’s decision to invest in or divest of businesses and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports.The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect NIKE’s business and financial performance. Moreover, NIKE operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks on NIKE’s business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.Investors should also be aware that while NIKE does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against NIKE’s policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that NIKE agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, NIKE has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of NIKE.Our products face intense competition.NIKE is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products. The athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive both in the United States and worldwide. We compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies and large companies having diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment. We also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products. Our DTC operations, both through our digital commerce operations and retail stores, also compete with multi-brand retailers selling our products.Product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, customer service, digital commerce platforms and social media presence are areas of intense competition. This, in addition to rapid changes in technology and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear and apparel and athletic equipment, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. In addition, the competitive nature of retail including shifts in the ways in which consumers are shopping, and the rising trend of digital commerce, constitutes a risk factor implicating our DTC and wholesale operations. If we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase or the consumer demand for our products may decline significantly.Failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our business.Our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. Maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation and product quality. Our commitment to product innovation and quality and our continuing investment in design (including materials) and marketing may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. We could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives or if the reputation or image of any of our brands is tarnished or receives negative publicity. In addition, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or by us, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations.In addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and digital dissemination of advertising campaigns. Negative posts or comments about us on social networking applications or websites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. If we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.7Table of ContentsIf we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits.Our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. However, lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. If we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through aggressive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media, mobile applications and online advertising. If we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products.Technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing process of footwear, apparel and athletic equipment is essential to the commercial success of our products. Research and development play a key role in technical innovation. We rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting-edge performance products. While we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance, reduce injury and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems.Failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality endorsers of our products could harm our business.We establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, as well as other public figures, to develop, evaluate and promote our products, as well as establish product authenticity with consumers. However, as competition in our industry has increased, the costs associated with establishing and retaining such sponsorships and other relationships have increased. If we are unable to maintain our current associations with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, or other public figures, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the high visibility or on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. As a result, our brands, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be harmed.Furthermore, if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, actions taken by athletes, teams or leagues, or other endorsers, associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, or endorsers, could also seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. In addition, poor performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes, or public figures, to use and endorse our products or a failure to enter into cost-effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes, public figures, and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand, sales and profitability.Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings.A majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. As a result, we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates globally. Additionally, there has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates as a result of the United Kingdom's impending exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit” and current U.S. policy proposals. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations, specifically amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into U.S. Dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of the Company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. Since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. Dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. Dollar or other trading currency. Our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities.8Table of ContentsGlobal economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.The uncertain state of the global economy continues to impact businesses around the world, most acutely in emerging markets and developing economies. If global economic and financial market conditions do not improve or deteriorate, the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition:•Slower consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts, increased inventories and lower gross margins.•In the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so.•We conduct transactions in various currencies, which increases our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. Dollar. Continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies, including in response to certain policies advocated by the U.S. presidential administration, could have a significant impact on our reported operating results and financial condition.•Continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability.•If retailers of our products experience declining revenues or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense.•If retailers of our products experience severe financial difficulty, some may become insolvent and cease business operations, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers.•If contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products.Our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results.We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment and in connection with the timing of significant sporting events, such as the Olympics or the European Football Championship, among others. In addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. This seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and currency exchange rate fluctuations, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of additional factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix and geographic sales trends, all of which we expect to continue. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period.Futures orders may not be an accurate indication of our future revenues.We utilize a futures ordering program, which allows retailers to order five to six months in advance of delivery with the commitment that their orders will be delivered within a set period of time at a fixed price. Our futures ordering program allows us to minimize the amount of products we hold in inventory, purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We currently report changes in futures orders in our periodic financial reports. Reported futures orders are not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenues for any future period, and the relationship between reported futures and reported revenues in a given period has become less correlated over time based on our evolving business model. Differences are also due to year-over-year changes in shipment timing, changes in the mix of orders between futures and orders with shorter lead times and because the fulfillment of certain orders may fall outside of the schedule noted above. In addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as well as differing levels of order cancellations, discounts and returns can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including sales with short lead times, closeout NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, all sales of NIKE Brand equipment, the difference between retail sales and internal orders from our Direct to Consumer in-line stores and digital commerce operations, and sales from Converse, NIKE Golf and Hurley.Our futures ordering program does not prevent excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, reduced cash flows and harm to our business.We purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. There is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer, distributor and consumer relationships and diminish brand loyalty.The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from period to period. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance.9Table of ContentsWe may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers.We extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer’s financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. To assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of our products, we offer certain customers the opportunity to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. These advance orders may be canceled under certain conditions, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially unstable retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. In the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties up to and including bankruptcies, which have had an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition. When the retail economy weakens or as consumer behavior shifts, retailers may be more cautious with orders. A slowing or changing economy in our key markets could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing retail environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. Retailers that experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products.Consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk and impair our ability to sell products.The athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retailers with many stores. These retailers have in the past increased their market share by expanding through acquisitions and construction of additional stores. These situations concentrate our credit risk with a relatively small number of retailers, and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity or consumer behavior shifts away from traditional retail, it would increase the risk that their outstanding payables to us may not be paid. In addition, increasing market share concentration among one or a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues.Our Direct to Consumer operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.Our Direct to Consumer stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. We have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than other stores. Due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our Direct to Consumer operations, a decline in sales, a shift in consumer behavior away from brick-and-mortar retail, or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs.Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, pose risks and uncertainties. Risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; and inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation. In addition, extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could adversely affect our business. If the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our digital commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.Many of our customers shop with us through our digital commerce website and mobile applications. Increasingly, customers are using tablets and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. We are increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. Any failure on our part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, user-friendly digital commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of digital commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our digital commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.Risks specific to our digital commerce business also include diversion of sales from our and our retailers' brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and liability for online content. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our digital commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands.Failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business.We periodically discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and could result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products.The actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. We also may be unable to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. We may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, use, importation and/or sale of certain products.We take various actions to prevent the unauthorized use and/or disclosure of our confidential information and intellectual property rights. Such actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure and non-compete agreements and agreements relating to our collaborations with third parties, and providing confidential information awareness training. Our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property rights might not always be effective. For example, confidential information that is related to business strategy, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely or inadvertently used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, a decline in our stock price and/or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties or injunctions.10Table of ContentsIn addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights, including outside the United States, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected.We are subject to the risk that our licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of our brands. We currently license, and expect to continue licensing, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. If our licensees fail to successfully market and sell licensed products, or fail to obtain sufficient capital or effectively manage their business operations, customer relationships, labor relationships, supplier relationships or credit risks, it could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. We also rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. Although we attempt to protect our brands through approval rights over the design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of our licensed brands by our licensees. The misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on us.We are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation.In addition to our own sensitive and proprietary business information, we collect transactional and personal information about our customers and users of our digital experiences, which include online distribution channels and product engagement and personal fitness applications. Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. Any breach of our network, or vendor systems, may result in the loss of confidential business and financial data, misappropriation of our consumers’, users' or employees’ personal information or a disruption of our business. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, including, unwanted media attention, impairment of our consumer and customer relationships, damage to our reputation and result in lost sales and consumers, fines, or lawsuits. We also may need to expend significant resources to protect against, respond to and/or redress problems caused by any breach.In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. Compliance with existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly, and any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. Misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits.Failure of our contractors or our licensees’ contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws and other standards could harm our business.We work with hundreds of contractors outside of the United States to manufacture our products, and we also have license agreements that permit unaffiliated parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. We require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees that make products using our intellectual property (including, indirectly, their contract manufacturers) to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, health and safety standards for the benefit of workers. We also require these contractors to comply with applicable standards for product safety. Notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. Significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition.Our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business.Virtually all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the United States, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our products are manufactured or where we sell products. This includes, for example, the uncertainty surrounding the effect of Brexit, including changes to the legal and regulatory framework that apply to the United Kingdom and its relationship with the European Union, as well as the current proposals affecting trade policy in the U.S. The U.S. presidential administration has indicated a focus on policy reforms that discourage U.S. corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through potential tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the U.S. If any of these reforms are implemented, it may become necessary for us to change the way we conduct business which may adversely affect our results of operations. The administration has also targeted the specific practices of certain U.S. multinational corporations in public statements which, if directed at us, could harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business.In addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. These factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets and our cost of doing business. If any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the United States and other countries. Any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.11Table of ContentsWe could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws or additional tax liabilities.We are subject to the tax laws in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction, including the United States, subject to significant change. There have been proposals to reform U.S. and foreign tax laws that could significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will pass, several of the proposals considered, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our income tax expense and cash flows. We earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries and are subject to the tax laws of those jurisdictions. If our capital or financing needs in the United States require us to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions above our current levels, our effective income tax rates for the affected periods could be negatively impacted. Portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays and rulings that expire in whole or in part from time to time. These tax holidays and rulings may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. If the tax holidays and rulings are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, our effective income tax rate would increase in the future.We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. For example, we and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. Although we believe we have clearly reflected the economics of these transactions and the proper local transfer pricing documentation is in place, tax authorities may propose and sustain adjustments that could result in changes that may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates.Proposed changes to U.S. tax law or policy, tariff and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.During, and following, the recent U.S. presidential election, there has been discussion and commentary regarding potential significant changes to U.S. trade policies, legislation, treaties and tariffs, including NAFTA and trade policies and tariffs affecting China. There have also been discussions of a disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products. It is unknown at this time whether and to what extent new legislation will be passed into law, pending or new regulatory proposals will be adopted, international trade agreements will be negotiated, or the effect that any such action would have, either positively or negatively, on our industry, or on us. The Company, similar to many other multinational corporations, does a significant amount of business that would be impacted by these changes. If any new legislation and/or regulations are implemented, or if existing trade agreements are renegotiated, it may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with such changes. Such operational changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses.As part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps with various financial institutions. In addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the United States and abroad. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. If one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty’s liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.We rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products.NIKE is supplied by approximately 127 footwear factories located in 15 countries. We do not own or operate any of our own footwear manufacturing facilities and depend upon independent contract manufacturers to manufacture all of the footwear products we sell. In fiscal 2017, five footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of fiscal 2017 footwear production and in aggregate accounted for approximately 69% of NIKE Brand footwear production in fiscal 2017. Our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our independent contract manufacturers. If one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, if any of our primary contract manufacturers fail to make timely shipments, do not meet our quality standards or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing and financing.The principal materials used in our apparel products — natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat or repel rain and/or snow as well as plastic and metal hardware — are available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. The principal materials used in our footwear products — natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, natural and synthetic fabrics and threads, nylon, canvas and polyurethane films — are also locally available to manufacturers. Both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our unaffiliated contract manufacturers to locate, train, employ and retain adequate personnel. NIKE contractors and suppliers buy raw materials and are subject to wage rates that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured.12Table of ContentsThere could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price or at all. Further, our unaffiliated contract manufacturers have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, unexpected increases in work wages, whether government mandated or otherwise and increases in compliance costs due to governmental regulation concerning certain metals used in the manufacturing of our products. In addition, we cannot be certain that our unaffiliated manufacturers will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. If we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards and labor, health and safety standards. Any delays, interruption or increased costs in labor or wages, or the supply of materials or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short- and long-term.Because independent manufacturers make a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, could adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. The cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. Current U.S. trade policy proposals, including potential changes to import tariffs and existing trade policies and agreements, could also have a significant impact on our activities in foreign jurisdictions, and could adversely affect our results of operations.In addition, Sojitz America performs significant import-export financing services for the Company. During fiscal 2017, Sojitz America provided financing and purchasing services for NIKE Brand products sold in certain NIKE markets including Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil, Canada, India, South Africa and Thailand (collectively the “Sojitz Markets”), excluding products produced and sold in the same country. Any failure of Sojitz America to provide these services or any failure of Sojitz America’s banks could disrupt our ability to acquire products from our suppliers and to deliver products to our customers in the Sojitz Markets. Such a disruption could result in canceled orders that would adversely affect sales and profitability.Our success depends on our global distribution facilities.We distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). Our distribution facilities could be interrupted by information technology problems and disasters such as earthquakes or fires. Any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities.We rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.We are heavily dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the Internet and third-party services (“Information Technology Systems”), across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. Information Technology Systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. For example, our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these Information Technology Systems. Over a number of years, we have implemented Information Technology Systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. Our work to integrate, secure and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing and NIKE will continue to invest in these efforts. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, including as a result of security breaches, viruses, hackers, malware, natural disasters, vendor business interruptions or other causes, or failure to properly maintain, protect, repair or upgrade systems, or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem and may have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition.We also use Information Technology Systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. If Information Technology Systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans, or those of our vendors, do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. Furthermore, we depend on Information Technology Systems and personal data collection and use for digital marketing, digital commerce, consumer engagement and the marketing and use of our digital products and services. We also rely on our ability to engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. Any interruption in Information Technology Systems may impede our ability to engage in the digital space and result in lost revenues, damage to our reputation, and loss of users.13Table of ContentsThe market for prime real estate is competitive.Our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics and other factors. We also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. In addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. Failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. This could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. Any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, customers, distribution centers and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, and their related consequences and effects, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our vendors and other suppliers or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.Our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns.From time to time, we may invest in technology, business infrastructure, new businesses, product offering and manufacturing innovation and expansion of existing businesses, such as our digital commerce operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. We believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability. However, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. The failure of any significant investment to provide expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations.We are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.As a multinational corporation with operations and distribution channels throughout the world, we are involved in various types of claims, lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and government investigations relating to our business, our products and the actions of our employees and representatives, including contractual and employment relationships, product liability claims, trademark rights and a variety of other matters. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of any such legal or regulatory proceedings or investigations, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties, or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our reputation. The global nature of our business means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time, which could adversely affect us. In addition, any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings could divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees.We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business.Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. The loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel.The sale of a large number of shares of common stock by our principal stockholder could depress the market price of our common stock.As of June 30, 2017, Swoosh, LLC beneficially owned more than 78% of our Class A Common Stock. If, on June 30, 2017, all of these shares were converted into Class B Common Stock, the commensurate ownership percentage of our Class B Common Stock would be approximately 16%. The shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the U.S. securities laws and the terms of the limited liability company agreement governing Swoosh, LLC. The sale or prospect of a sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Swoosh, LLC was formed by Philip H. Knight, our Chairman Emeritus, to hold the majority of his shares of Class A Common Stock. On June 30, 2016, Mr. Knight sold his voting interest in Swoosh, LLC to a trust controlled by his son and NIKE director, Travis Knight.Changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options.Our long-term debt is currently rated Investment Grade by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. If our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to the unsecured credit market, could be limited. We may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in a default, and as a result, the commitments of our lenders under our credit agreements may be terminated and the maturity of amounts owed may be accelerated. In addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt.14Table of ContentsIf our internal controls are ineffective, our operating results could be adversely affected.Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our operating results could be adversely affected.The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory reserves, contingent payments under endorsement contracts, accounting for property, plant and equipment and definite-lived assets, hedge accounting for derivatives, stock-based compensation, income taxes and other contingencies. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of our Class B Common Stock.Anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the Company or reduce the price of our common stock.There are provisions of our articles of incorporation and Oregon law that are intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the Board of Directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of Class A Common Stock elect three-quarters of the Board of Directors rounded down to the next whole number. However, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the Company.We may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline.Our Class B Common Stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts’ estimates of our future performance. Analysts’ estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against NIKE and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. If our stock price is volatile for any reason, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in reputational damage, substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business.15Table of Contents