Debug information for CIK 5768, Year 2007

Filing URL: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/5768/000110465907047514/a07-16403_110k.htm
Filing Date: 06/13/2007
Reporting Date: 03/31/2007

First 1000 characters of text:

10-K
1
a07-16403_110k.htm
10-K


   
UNITED
STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM
10-K



x


 


ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
  THE SECURITIES 
  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




 


 


 




 


 


For the
  fiscal year ended March 31, 2007




 


 


 




o


 


TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
  15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



 
Commission file number 1-6549

AMERICAN
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified
in its charter)




Massachusetts


 


04-2240991




(State or other
  jurisdiction of


 


(IRS Employer
  Identification No.)




incorporation or
  organization)


 


 




 


 


 




829
  Middlesex Turnpike,


 


 




Billerica,
  Massachusetts


 


01821




(Address of
  principal executive offices)


 


(Zip Code)




 
(978) 262-8700
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:




Titl

Risk Factor Section Found

First 1000 characters of risk section:
<html><body><p>,
one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time
to time in our other filings with the SEC. We disclaim any obligation to update
any forward-looking statements contained herein after the date of this Annual
Report.</p>
<p style="color:windowtext;margin:0pt 0pt 12.0pt;"><b><font face="Times New Roman" size="2" style="font-size:10.0pt;font-weight:bold;">PART I</font></b><a name="PartI_091054"></a></p>
<p style="color:windowtext;margin:0pt 0pt 12.0pt;"><b><font face="Times New Roman" size="2" style="font-size:10.0pt;font-weight:bold;">ITEM 1. BUSINESS</font></b><a name="Item1_Business_091057"></a></p>
<p style="color:windowtext;margin:0pt 0pt 12.0pt;text-indent:18.0pt;"><font face="Times New Roman" size="2" style="font-size:10.0pt;">American
Science and Engineering, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation formed in 1958
(together with its subsidiary, the “Company” or “AS&amp;E”), develops, manufactures,
markets, and sells X-ray inspection and other

Found 67 risk factor titles:
1. ITEM 1. BUSINESS
2. Transmission X-ray Technology:
3. Z Backscatter Technology:
4. Technologies:
5. Products and Systems
6. CargoSearch™ Inspection Systems:
7. OmniView™ Gantry System
8. PalletSearch™
9. Z Backscatter Systems:
10. Z Backscatter Van™ (ZBV
11. Ruggedized Detection Imaging Module (RDIM):
12. Ruggedized Detection Imaging Module (RDIM)
13. ParcelSearch™ Inspection Systems:
14. Model 101VAN™
15. Models 101Z™, 101ZZ™, and 101XL™
16. Personnel Screening:
17. SmartCheck™
18. Contract Research & Development
19. Service and Support:
20. Intellectual Property
21. Sales and Marketing
22. Competition
23. ISO 9001 Certification
24. Component Availability
25. Regulatory Compliance
26. Research and Development
27. Sales Backlog
28. Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales
29. Net Sales and Contract Revenues
30. Fiscal Year
31. (Dollars in thousands)
32. Available Information
33. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
34. The Company’s reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of its revenues could harm its business and prospects.
35. The Company conducts its business worldwide, which exposes it to a number of difficulties in coordinating its international activities and dealing with multiple regulatory environments.
36. The Company’s lengthy sales cycle requires it to incur significant expenses with no assurance that it will generate revenue or recover such expenses.
37. The Company’s business is dependent upon governmental policies and appropriations.
38. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for the Company’s products or increase its expenses.
39. The Company’s reliance on only a limited number of suppliers for some key components for its products could harm its business and prospects.
40. Fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly operating results may cause its stock price to fluctuate.
41. The Company could incur substantial costs as a result of product liability claims and adverse publicity if its X-ray inspection systems fail to detect bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety.
42. The Company’s insurance may be insufficient to protect it from product liability claims.
43. The Company may not be able to fund its research and development activities.
44. The Company’s success depends on new product development.
45. The Company’s success depends upon its ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements.
46. The Company may not be able to compete successfully.
47. The Company’s business could be harmed if it is unable to protect its intellectual property.
48. The Company’s business may be materially and adversely affected by infringement claims initiated by the Company or its competitors.
49. The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain qualified management professionals.
50. Future sales of the Company’s common stock by existing stockholders could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock.
51. Existing external financing may not be available in the future.
52. The volatility of the Company’s stock price could adversely affect an investment in the Company’s common stock.
53. Provisions in the Company’s articles of organization and the Company’s shareholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for the Company’s business or common stock, and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock.
54. Transmission X-ray Technology:Transmission images are created from X-rays that pass through the object that is being examined. Medical X-ray images are a type of transmission X-ray. In transmission imaging, the detector measures the relative intensity of the X-rays that pass directly through the object. The degree to which X-rays are transmitted through an object is dependant upon the size of the X-ray source and the composition and quantity of the material in the path of the X-ray beam. Low energy sources are used to scan smaller objects such as parcels and baggage, and high energy sources are used for scanning large items such as trucks and cargo containers. Transmission X-ray images are useful for seeing “through” the object of interest. A transmission image, however, represents an aggregate of all objects in the path on the beam and can therefore be difficult to interpret.
55. Z Backscatter Technology:Many of the Company’s X-ray systems utilize AS&E’s patented Z Backscatter technology. The term “Backscatter” refers to those X-rays thatscatteroff of the object under examinationbacktoward the X-ray source. Z Backscatter detectors capture these scattered X-rays which are then used to create highly readable, photo-like images.
56. OtherTechnologies:Two other technologies employed by AS&E are Shaped Energy and Radioactive Threat Detection (RTD). Shaped Energy technology is a specialized form of high energy transmission X-ray which is used in AS&E’s OmniView product line. Radioactive Threat Detection (RTD) is a technology which is used to find radioactive materials in vehicles.
57. CargoSearch™ Inspection Systems:The CargoSearch family of systems includes non-intrusive inspection products which are primarily used for the screening of trucks, cars, cargo containers, pallets, and air cargo. These systems are used at locations including border crossings, seaports, military bases, railroad centers, airports, and cargo and transportation hubs. The CargoSearch systems are designed to combat trade fraud, drug trafficking, weapons smuggling, and terrorism. The CargoSearch family includes:
58. Z Backscatter Systems:Z Backscatter Systems include imaging systems that use Z Backscatter imaging only.
59. ParcelSearch™ Inspection Systems:ParcelSearch systems are designed for the non-intrusive X-ray scanning of parcels, baggage, and mail. They are primarily located in government facilities, airports, commercial office buildings, high-security federal facilities and convention centers. The ParcelSearch family includes:
60. Personnel Screening:Personnel screening is a crucial part of any threat detection effort. Today, threats can take the smallest of forms and are often easily hidden on a person. With the advent of suicide bombings, personnel screening has taken on an even more important role. Personnel screening is also important in the effort to intercept prohibited substances, such as drugs and alcohol.
61. Contract Research & Development:AS&E engages in a variety of contract research and development (CRAD) programs, mostly for agencies of the US government. AS&E pursues CRAD opportunities which it believes provide avenues for advancing our core technologies or developing product offerings for strategic customers or markets. One such important program is the CAARS (Cargo Advanced Radiography System) program for DHS’ Domestic Nuclear Detection Office (DNDO). CAARS is a program under which AS&E is developing advanced detection technology for inspecting cargo containers for nuclear materials.
62. Service and Support:AS&E’s Field Service Engineers (FSEs) provide support services on most of AS&E’s X-ray inspection systems worldwide. FSEs are located at AS&E offices in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and North America. In addition, Technical Support is provided at the Company’s headquarters in Billerica, Massachusetts. AS&E provides comprehensive, cost-effective spare parts solutions customized for each system. The Company maintains an inventory of field-replaceable components in order to meet customer needs for spare parts.
63. Models 101Z™, 101ZZ™, and 101XL™:conveyor-based systems allowing rapid inspection of high volumes of luggage and other packages.
64. ·tariff regulations.
65. ·changes in the volume or timing of product orders.
66. ·breadth of the sales and service organization.
67. ·developments in the Company’s relationships with its customers and suppliers.
