Debug information for CIK 5768, Year 2009

Filing URL: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/5768/000110465909038109/a09-15562_110k.htm
Filing Date: 06/15/2009
Reporting Date: 03/31/2009

First 1000 characters of text:

10-K
1
a09-15562_110k.htm
10-K


Table of Contents
 

 

 
UNITED
STATES
SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington,
D.C. 20549
 

 
FORM 10-K
 




x


ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




 


 




For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009




 


 




o


TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
  15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




 
Commission
file number 1-6549
 

 
AMERICAN
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 




Massachusetts


 


04-2240991




(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)


 


(IRS Employer Identification No.)




 


 


 




829 Middlesex Turnpike,
Billerica, Massachusetts
(Address of principal executive offices)


 


01821
(Zip Code)




 


 


 




(978) 262-8700
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)




 

 
Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 




Title of each class



Risk Factor Section Found

First 1000 characters of risk section:
<html><body><p>”, among others, could cause actual
results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements
made herein and presented elsewhere by management from time to time.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to
update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.</p>
<p style="color:windowtext;margin:0in 0in .0001pt;"><font face="Times New Roman" size="2" style="font-size:10.0pt;"> </font></p>
<p style="color:windowtext;margin:0in 0in .0001pt;text-indent:14.0pt;"><font face="Times New Roman" size="2" style="font-size:10.0pt;">All references in
this Annual Report to “AS&amp;E”, the “Company”, “we”, “our” and “us” means
American Science and Engineering, Inc. and its subsidiary.</font></p>
<p style="color:windowtext;margin:0in 0in .0001pt;"><font face="Times New Roman" size="2" style="font-size:10.0pt;"> </font></p>
<p style="color:windowtext;margin:0in 0in .0001pt;"><b>

Found 58 risk factor titles:
1. ITEM 1. BUSINESS
2. Transmission X-ray Technology:
3. Z Backscatter Technology:
4. Other Technologies:
5. Products and Systems
6. CargoSearch Inspection Systems:
7. Gantry System
8. Z Backscatter Systems:
9. Z Backscatter Van
10. ParcelSearch and Personnel Screening Inspection Systems:
11. Contract Research & Development
12. Service and Support:
13. Intellectual Property
14. Sales and Marketing
15. Competition
16. ISO 9001 Certification
17. Component Availability
18. Regulatory Compliance
19. Research and Development
20. Sales Backlog
21. Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales
22. Net Sales and Contract Revenues
23. Fiscal Year
24. (Dollars in thousands)
25. Percent of International Revenue by Major Region:
26. Available Information
27. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
28. The Company’s reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of its revenues could harm its business and prospects. A number of contracts held by those customers may be terminated at the customer’s discretion.
29. The Company’s results of operations are affected by the overall economy and governmental spending.
30. The Company’s business is dependent upon governmental policies and appropriations.
31. The Company’s lengthy sales cycle requires it to incur significant expenses with no assurance that it will generate revenue or recover such expenses.
32. The Company conducts its business worldwide, which exposes it to a number of difficulties in coordinating its international activities and dealing with multiple regulatory environments.
33. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for the Company’s products or increase its expenses.
34. The Company’s reliance on a limited number of suppliers for some key components for its products could harm its business and prospects.
35. Fluctuations in the Company’s operating results and unanticipated contract terminations may cause its stock price to fluctuate.
36. The Company could incur substantial costs as a result of product liability claims and adverse publicity if its X-ray inspection systems fail to detect bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats to personal safety.
37. The Company’s insurance may be insufficient to protect it from product liability claims.
38. The Company may not be able to fund its research and development activities.
39. The Company’s success depends on new product development.
40. The Company’s success depends upon its ability to adapt to rapid changes in technology and customer requirements.
41. The Company may not be able to compete successfully.
42. The Company’s business could be harmed if it is unable to protect its intellectual property.
43. The Company’s business may be materially and adversely affected by infringement claims initiated by the Company or its competitors.
44. The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain qualified management professionals.
45. Existing external financing may not be available in the future.
46. Future sales of the Company’s common stock by existing stockholders could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock.
47. The volatility of the Company’s stock price could adversely affect an investment in the Company’s common stock.
48. Provisions in the Company’s articles of organization and the Company’s shareholder rights plan may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for the Company’s business or common stock, and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock.
49. Transmission X-ray Technology:Transmission images are created from X-rays that pass through the object that is being examined. Medical X-ray images are a type of transmission X-ray. In transmission imaging, the detector measures the relative intensity of the X-rays that pass directly through the object. The degree to which X-rays are transmitted through an object is
50. Z Backscatter Technology:Most of the Company’s X-ray systems utilize AS&E’s patented Z Backscatter technology. The term “Backscatter” refers to those X-rays thatscatteroff of the object under examinationbacktoward the X-ray source. Z Backscatter detectors capture these scattered X-rays which are then used to create highly readable, photo-like images.
51. Other Technologies:Two other technologies employed by AS&E are Shaped Energy and Radioactive Threat Detection (RTD). Shaped Energy technology is a specialized form of high energy transmission X-ray which is used in AS&E’s OmniView™. Radioactive Threat Detection (RTD) is a technology which is used to find radioactive materials in vehicles and is an option on selected AS&E detection systems.
52. CargoSearch Inspection Systems:The CargoSearch family of systems includes non-intrusive inspection products which are primarily used for the screening of trucks, cars, cargo containers, pallets, and air cargo at locations including border crossings, seaports, military bases, railroad centers, airports, and cargo and transportation hubs. The CargoSearch systems are designed to combat trade fraud, drug trafficking, weapons smuggling, and terrorism. The CargoSearch family includes:
53. Z Backscatter Systems:Z Backscatter Systems include imaging systems that use Z Backscatter imaging only.
54. ParcelSearch and Personnel Screening Inspection Systems:ParcelSearch systems are designed for the non-intrusive X-ray scanning of parcels, baggage, and mail. These systems are primarily located in government facilities, airports, commercial office buildings, high-security federal facilities and convention centers.
55. Contract Research & Development: AS&E engages in a variety of contract research and development (CRAD) programs, mostly for agencies of the U.S. government. AS&E pursues CRAD opportunities which it believes provide avenues for advancing our core technologies or developing product offerings for strategic customers or markets.
56. Service and Support:AS&E’s highly skilled Field Service Engineers (FSEs) provide support services worldwide. Each FSE has a technical degree in Electrical and/or Mechanical Engineering (or equivalent experience), and is trained in the operation and repair of electronics, hydraulics, pneumatics, mechanics, electrical systems, and computers. FSEs are available 7 days a week, 24 hours a day, and are located at AS&E sites in Asia, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and North America. In addition, Technical Support is provided at the Company’s headquarters in Billerica, Massachusetts. AS&E provides comprehensive, cost-effective spare parts solutions customized for each system. The Company maintains an inventory of field-replaceable components in various depots around the world in order to meet customer needs for spare parts.
57. The Company relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property.In general, the Company pursues a policy of obtaining patent protection both in the United States and in selected foreign countries for subject matter we consider patentable and important to our business strategy. As of March 31, 2009, the Company has in excess of 40 unexpired patents issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and multiple pending applications directed to a variety of technologies. The Company also has granted patents or pending
58. applications pursuant to the following treaties and/or in the following countries: Patent Cooperation Treaty, European Patent Convention, Gulf Cooperation Counsel, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Russian Federation, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom. A significant number of our patents have been issued in the last five years.
